these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
background facts.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
they were also being granted the benefit of leave.
if no then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
proceedings before the tribunal.
the appellants were appointed by the indore development authority.
their work was satisfactory.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
the salary fixed by the commissioner was earlier given to all engineers and later on they were given the salary fixed by the collector.
there is no difference in their work and the work of the employees of indore development authority.
high court judgment.
the vacancies according to the learned counsel need not be permanent ones.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
as regard the claim of equal pay for equal work the learned counsel would urge that the high court has failed to consider the same in its true perspective.
our attention was also drawn to the application dated 22 10 1991 filed by one o p mandloi before the chairman of the indore development authority disclosing his educational qualifications and enclosing therewith the mark sheets and degrees obtained by him in civil engineering and also secondary school examination certificate to show his date of birth.
sd c e o 23 10 91.
drawing our attention also to the pleadings as also the reliefs claimed for by the appellants before the labour court the learned counsel would contend that no contention was raised therein by the appellants as regard their entitlement of permanency in terms of the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
provisions section 22 of the 1961 act.
2 of the standard standing order reads as under 2.
classification of employees.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
probationers iv badlies v apprentices and vi temporary.
i above.
the respondent authority is a state within the meaning of article.
12 of the constitution of india.
section 76b provides for constitution of development authorities service.
the posts of sub engineers in which the appellants were appointed.
it is nobody 's case were sanctioned ones.
the answer thereto must be rendered in negative.
regularisation can not be claimed as a matter of right.
what can be regularized is an irregularity and not an illegality.
all actions of the state must conform to the constitutional requirements.
see state of u p others vs.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
in this case except the nodal centre functions and supervision of the cooperative society the state has no administrative control over its day to day affairs.
the state has not borne any part of the financial burden.
yet recently in pankaj gupta ors etc.
vs state of jammu kshmir ors.
in this situation we see no reason to interfere with the impugned order.
case law relied upon by the appellant.
in dr a k jain and others etc.
vs union of india and others 1987 supp.
scc 497.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
it appears that there existed a scheme for regularization and some directions were issued in terms thereof.
the said decisions thus are of no assistance in this case.
application of the act and the rules.
no notification has been brought to our notice that the standard standing orders had been made applicable to the appellants.
it is furthermore not in dispute that adhiniyam came into force in 1973.
the 1961 act provides for classification of employees in five categories.
the 1973 act as noticed hereinbefore clearly mandates that all posts should be sanctioned by the state government and all appointments to the said cadre must be made by the state government alone.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
the said provisions were not complied with.
it is accepted that no appointment letter was issued in favour of the appellants.
the recruitments of the appellants do not fall in any of the said categories.
the appellants have not produced any such ticket.
constitution being the suprema lax shall prevail over all other statutes.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
vis a vis the 1973 act and the rules framed thereunder.
we have used the term keeping in view the provisions of 1963 rules.
we have noticed the provisions of the act and the rules.
no case was made out by the appellants herein in their statements of claim that they became permanent employees in terms thereof.
there is also nothing on records to show that such a claim was put forward even in the demand raising the industrial dispute.
presumably the appellants were aware of the statutory limitations in this behalf.
it could not enlarge the scope of the reference nor could deviate therefrom.
a demand which was not raised at the time of raising the dispute could not have been gone into by the labour court being not the subject matter thereof.
project work.
this case involves 31 employees.
as noticed hereinbefore the high court 's observation remained unchallenged that the project was to be financed by oda.
see also karnataka state coop.
apex bank ltd vs.
amar singh and others 2003 5 scc 388 2003 indlaw sc 331.
however it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
adverse inference.
one of such documents was offers of appointment.
they did not do so.
the labour court did not draw any adverse inference.
such a plea was not even raised before the high court.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
2004 air scw 5476.
as stated above between the period 1987 to 1990 as a matter of fact till end of the year 1990 the respondents have not been able to establish the case of continuous work for 240 days.
considering these facts in our view drawing of an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the years 1991 92 is wholly erroneous on the part of the industrial court and the high court.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court 's view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
this is what this court had to say in that regard.
in the instant case the industrial tribunal did not draw any adverse inference against the appellant.
in any event in this case we have proceeded on the basis that the assertions of the appellants as regard nature of their employment their continuance in the job for a long time are correct and as such the question as to whether any adverse inference should be drawn for alleged production of documents called for would take a back seat.
equal pay for equal work.
no post was sanctioned by the state government.
they were not appointed in terms of the provisions of the statute.
no material was placed before the high court as to the nature of the duties of either categories and it is not possible to hold that the principle of equal pay for equal work is an abstract one.
there shall however be no order as to costs.
appeals dismissed.
