ujjagar singh the appellant herein a resident of village bangawali tehsil malerkotla was tried and convicted by the additional sessions judge sangrur for the murder of his niece mukhtiar kaur and was awarded the death penalty.
in addition he was convicted for an offence punishable section 376 of the ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to a fine of rs 5 000 and in default of payment to undergo further r i for one year and section 309 of the ipc to a sentence of simple imprisonment for one year.
the facts of the case are as under.
at about 2 00 p m on 10th november 2002 a boy whose identity is not forthcoming informed satnam singh pw2 that an incident of firing had taken place in the house of ujjagar singh situated in the fields on the outskirts of the village.
puran singh had however transferred 30 or 35 bighas of agricultural land falling to his share after the death of his father in the name of the appellant 's sons by a collusive decree in the year 1994 and the suggestion was that this transaction had been objected to by mukhtiar kaur who was demanding that the land be returned to her.
the weapon and the recovered cartridge cases had also been sent to the forensic science laboratory which in its report dated 4 8 2004 opined that the crime cartridge case ci could have been fired by the right barrel of the weapon whereas the crime cartridge case c2 had been fired from the right barrel.
pw10 karam singh aforesaid confirmed the story given by balwinder singh.
the prosecution case was then put to the accused and his statement recorded section.
313 of the cr.
p c in reply to question 33 he stated as under i am innocent.
i have been implicated falsely in this case.
i was treating mukhtiar kaur as my daughter and loved her as my daughter.
false allegations have been levelled against me.
i have not killed mukhtiar kaur.
balwinder singh her husband was addicted to vices and used to beat her due to which she used to remain under depression and sick generally and used to come to me as my daughter.
some body suddenly came and fired at me.
i fell down on the ground and became unconscious.
i regained consciousness in hospital.
even i do not know who took me to hospital.
i have been implicated in this case falsely.
the learned state counsel has however supported the judgment of the courts below.
we have heard the learned counsel for the parties and gone through the record.
we first take up for consideration the question of the conviction section 376 of the ipc.
we agree with the submission of the learned counsel that an examination could not have been carried out immediately.
we therefore find that ujjagar singh 's conviction section 376 of the ipc can not be sustained.
mr goburdhan has placed great emphasis on the fact that as the four witnesses who had reached the place of incident i e jora singh satnam singh gurdeep singh and kulwant singh had resiled from their statements and had disowned their initial stories the prosecution had of necessity to rely on circumstantial evidence and if the chain of circumstances remained incomplete or even if one link in the chain was broken the prosecution must fail.
scale 19 2007 indlaw sc 5.
we have considered their arguments very carefully.
in this case this court held that the omission of the prosecution inter alia to have the finger prints found on the alleged murder weapon was fatal to the prosecution story.
in 1984 4 scc 116 sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 indlaw sc 432 this court discussed the ratio of the judgments in hanumant v state of m p air 1952 sc 343 1952 indlaw sc 89 tufail alias simmi v state of u p 1969 3 scc 198 1969 indlaw sc 573 and ramgopal v state of maharashtra 1972 4 scc 625 1971 indlaw sc 555 and shivaji sahabrao bobade v state of maharashtra 1973 2 scc 793 1973 indlaw sc 181 and observed thus a close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established 1the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.
there is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between may be proved and must be or should be proved as was held by this court in shivaji sahabrao bobade v state of maharashtra 1973 indlaw sc 181 where the following observations were made.
these judgments have broadly followed the principles laid down in the judgments referred to above and need not therefore be dealt with us in extenso.
it is in this background that we must examine the circumstances in the present case.
a few facts stand out from the prosecution story.
gopal singh was cross examined by the prosecution.
it is true that in a case relating to circumstantial evidence motive does assume great importance but to say that the absence of motive would dislodge the entire prosecution story is perhaps giving this one factor an importance which is not due and to use the clichi.
there is however a hint in the testimony of pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh that his enquiries had revealed that the accused was having illicit relations with mukhtiar kaur and we can assume that some thing untoward had happened which could have triggered the volatile and hostile incident.
to our mind therefore this is yet another circumstance inculpating the accused.
no blackening or foreign body was visible.
underlying muscles were exposed and contamination was present.
he has also drawn our attention to the cross examination of the doctor wherein he reiterated that there was no visible blackening and that it was not possible for him to say whether the injury was suicidal or otherwise.
pjj wherein marks of a shot hitting the roof were seen at point e whereas the appellant was found lying at point d in the same room.
there was no other person.
the fact that the terrace and the bedroom are adjoining each other is not in dispute.
the autopsy report shows that a blackening and charring existed so far as injury no i is concerned.
the place of injury is also important.
the lacerated wound was found over grabella middle of forehead.
there was thus a remote possibility of causation of such type of injury by any other person who was not in the terrace.
the onus was on him.
he failed to discharge the same.
we have considered the submission of the state counsel very carefully.
it is true that it is generally for the prosecution to prove its case beyond doubt but in circumstances such as the present one some explanation is also due from an accused in order to absolve himself from suspicion of the crime.
it must be emphasized that but for this self serving statement made by the appellant there is nothing on record to support his positive stance.
the firearm is usually fired at close range.
sometimes the firing is done by pulling a string tied to the trigger by the big toe.
the skin around the entry wound shows characteristic blackening scorching and tattooing.
dr b r sharma in his book forensic science in criminal investigation and trials fourth edition at page 1160 too has delineated the circumstances that could indicate suicide and while referring to the site of the injury has observed certain sites are predominantly used by suicides for self inflicted injuries.
for example with firearm temple forehead mouth and chest are the favourite sites.
with knife throat and wrist are the favourite sites.
hesitation injuries are also observed in some suicide cases.
we also find that no part of the evidence of the hostile witnesses comes to the aid of the appellant.
the question now arises as to the sentence that should be imposed on the appellant.
in this background the death sentence is not called for.
we accordingly acquit the appellant of the charge section 376 of the ipc but maintain his conviction for the other offences but commute his death sentence to life.
with this modification the appeal is dismissed.
