aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
kay aar biscuits p.
ltd ghaziabad and m s rich food products p ltd noida.
under the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was.
party no 1 under the agreement.
under the agreement.
under the agreement there was a recital under which it was stated that m s.
rich food products p.
the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd gave permission to m s rich food products pvt.
ltd to use its trade mark for the manufacture of wafers alone.
the said agreement was valid for three years commencing from 22 11 1989.
meghraj biscuits industries ltd or meghraj.
the assistant commissioner ghaziabad examined the printed wrappers.
aggrieved by the decision of the adjudicating authority the assessee preferred appeals to the commissioner a the said appeals were rejected on the ground that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj of another manufacturer m s kay aar biscuits p ltd on their products biscuits and therefore they were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
and therefore they were entitled to exemption.
kay aar biscuits p ltd.
hence these civil appeals.
ltd and m s.
in the rectification application.
one more fact needs to be mentioned that on 30 6 2000 the registrar of trade marks appears to have issued registration certificate on 30 6 2000 registering the trade mark meghraj in favour of the appellants with effect form 30 9 91 it appears that issuance of this certificate was mentioned before the cegat which rejected the rectification application on 8 12 2000.
the object of the notification therefore was to help the ssi units and thereby increased industrial production.
explanation ix defined the word brand name or trade name.
the same is quoted hereinbelow.
explanation ix brand name or trade name shall mean a brand name or trade name whether registered or not that is to say a name or a mark such as symbol monogram label signature or invented word or writing which is used in relation to such specified goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between such specified goods and some person using such name or mark with or without any indication of the identity of that person.
in the present case as stated above m s kay aar biscuits p ltd entered into an agreement on 22 11 89 with m s rich food products p ltd under that agreement the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd declared that his company was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
the name of that director is madan verma.
he is the director of the appellants company also.
further there is no evidence to show as to whether m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was an eligible manufacturer.
in the circumstances we do not find any merit in this appeal.
it was urged that a false declaration was made by m s kay aar biscuits p ltd under the above agreement on 22 11 89.
we do not find any merit in the above arguments.
in the case of pahwa chemicals pvt.
ltd v.
elt 257 2005 indlaw sc 799sc.
the object of the notification is to grant benefits only to those industries which otherwise do not have the advantage of a brand name.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
in the case of commissioner of central excise chandigarh v bhalla enterprises 2004.
elt 225 2004 indlaw sc 996scthis court held that the assessee will not be entitled to the benefit of exemption if it uses on goods in question same similar brand name with intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person or uses the name in such manner that it would indicate such connection.
there is no deed of assignment from m s kay aar biscuits p ltd in favour of the appellants herein.
this argument is based on the concept of abandonment.
we do not find any merit in this argument.
in the present case there is no evidence from the side of the appellants indicating abandonment of the trade mark by m s although madan verma the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd has filed his affidavit enclosing the registration certificate he has nowhere stated that m s ltd has abandoned the trade mark.
in the circumstances the department was right in rejecting the above contention.
u s 28 of the trade marks act1999registration gives to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the trade marks act.
our trade marks law is based on the english trade marks law and the english acts.
the english acts enabled registration of a new mark not till then used with the like consequences which a distinctive mark had prior to the passing of the acts.
law in india under our present act is similar.
a person may become a proprietor of a trade mark in diverse ways.
before the deputy registrar and before mr justice shah proprietorship was claimed on the basis that the applicant was entitled to it as an importer 's mark.
in our opinion it is not necessary in this case to go into details about facts in the various decided cases dealing with importer 's marks.
in short it was a competition between a foreign trader and the indian importer for the proprietorship of that mark in this country.
we have already reached a conclusion that so far as this country is concerned degoumois co have totally disclaimed any interest in the proprietorship of that mark for watches etc.
in india the mark caltex was a totally new mark for watches and allied goods.
he in fact used it in respect of watches.
we therefore hold that the applicant is the proprietor of that mark.
emphasis supplied.
this deeming fiction can not be extended to the excise law.
it is confined to the provisions of the trade marks act.
in the case of consolidated foods corporation v brandon and co.
air 1965 bombay 35 1961 indlaw mum 91it has been held vide paras 27 and 30 that the trade marks act merely facilitates the mode of proof.
apparently in such a case there is no question of infringement of any right of property in a trade mark for which any relief is sought nor is there any question of passing off so that it might be necessary to enter into questions of nicety as regards whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark.
there was no other basis on which those courts could give any relief to the plaintiffs in such cases and for the purpose of such relief the courts of equity did not require the plaintiff to prove that his mark by any length of user was associated in the minds of the public with his goods.
as a matter of fact the statute enabled a person to have registered a mark not only which he had been using but also a mark which he proposed to use.
the latter type of mark would evidently refer to a distinctive mark a mark which does not directly describe the nature or quality of the goods to which it is attached.
even so far as this country is concerned the trade marks act of 1940 does not seem to have made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark as established by the courts of chancery in england.
in in re century spinning and manufacturing co ltd.
49 bom lr 52.
251937and an application for registration had been made and refused.
as regards the question whether there could be any property in a trade mark the learned judge further observed on the same page as follows again turning to s 54 of the specific relief act which deals with cases when a perpetual injunction may be granted the explanation to that section lays down that for the purpose of that section a trade mark is property.
therefore if a person invaded or threatened to invade the other 's right to or enjoyment of property the court u s 54 had the discretion to grant a perpetual injunction and trade mark was as much property for the purpose of s 54 as any other kind of property.
i therefore agree with the learned advocate general that all that the trade marks act has done is to facilitate the mode of proof.
to summarise therefore a trader acquires a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with his goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade.
the trader who adopts such a mark is entitled to protection directly the article having assumed a vendible character is launched upon the market.
as between two competitors who are each desirous of adopting such a markit is to use familiar language entirely a question of who gets there first.
gaw kan lye v saw kyone saing air 1939.
rang 343.
fb registration under the statute does not confer any new right to the mark claimed or any greater right than what already existed at common law and at equity without registration.
registration itself does not create a trade mark.
common law rights are left wholly unaffected.
the proprietors of the mark on the labels bearing the mark monarch on the different kinds of its food products and therefore the respondent company had no right to apply for registration in its favours as if it was the proprietor thereof.
if these two names had stood by themselves without any further description of either of them it could be said that both kipre and co and the respondent company were jointly the owners of the mark as well as the owners of the goods to which the label was affixed.
but that is not the case.
the respondent company is described as the sole distributors on the label.
the reasonable inference that could be drawn from this description surely is that the goods were the property of kipre and co and so also the mark.
if the respondent company was really the proprietor of the mark and also the owner of the goods one would expect some such words as manufactured by kipre and co for brandon and co private ltd in the absence of any such words a person buying any of these goods on reading the label would naturally believe that what he was buying was the property of kipre and co which was selling its goods under the mark monarch.
305 2006 indlaw sc 546 in that matter a show cause notice was issued calling upon the assessee to show cause why the exemption be not denied to the assessee.
in para 19 of the show cause notice the authority accepted the existence of a deed of assignment.
in the present case the facts are entirely different.
in the present case there is no deed or assignment from m s ltd to the m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd appellants herein as stated above there is no proof of acquisition on payment or consideration by the appellants to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd in the present case there is no evidence of assignment or licence from m s ltd to the appellants.
in the present case we are concerned with the retrospective effect of the certificate issued by the registrar of trade marks on 30 6 2000 with effect from 30 9 91.
in the circumstances the judgment of this court in the case of bigen industries 2006 indlaw sc 546 supra has no application.
for the aforestated reasons we do not find any merit in these civil appeals.
accordingly the civil appeals stand dismissed with no order as to costs.
appeals dismissed.
