for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
plot nos 177 and 178 were owned by respondent no 4 herein.
he used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
he however did not pursue his case in regard to the proposal for widening of the road.
for the said public purpose viz.
widening of the road867 sq m of land was taken over leaving only 200 sq m of land.
he did not take any part in the proceedings therefor.
and its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
the said final plot original plot is allotted in lieu of your no 177178 paiki land.
and the said land is now vested in the municipal corporation from 1 7 1999and is of the ownership of the municipal corporation.
in spite of this you have not handed over the possession.
therefore as per the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 rule 33 the undersigned in exercise of powers conferred below s 681 and 82 of the bombay provincial municipalities act and below the s 68 notice under the gujarat town planning and urban development act this is to inform you that as shown in the sketch on the reverse the premises marked should be vacated within 7 days from receipt of the notice and had over the possession to the surat municipal corporation.
in the said writ petition it was prayed on the facts and circumstances mentioned herein above the petitioner prays to your lordships that a be pleased to issue writ of mandamus or writ in the nature of mandamus or appropriate writ order or direction quashing and setting aside the impugned action of acquiring and demolishing the structures available on the land in question i e original plot no 17 a r s no 17 p situated at umra surat.
a division bench of the high court dismissed an intra court appeal preferred thereagainst.
the scheme in terms of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act having become a part of the act validity thereof can not be questioned at this stage as modification of the scheme if any will have to undergo the entire process once over again which is not contemplated under the act.
it is not necessary for us to delve deep into the statutory scheme.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
s 40 of the act empowers the appropriate authority to make one or more schemes.
a declaration of intention to make a scheme is to be notified whereafter a draft scheme may be published.
s 45 provides for reconstitution of the plots sub s 2.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
s 52 of the act provides for the contents of preliminary and final scheme.
67 effect of preliminary scheme.
on the day on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
a all lands required by the appropriate authority.
shall in accordance with the prescribed procedure be summarily evicted by the appropriate authority.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
for eviction under section 68the appropriate authority shall follow the following procedure viz.
c if the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or servant deputed u cl b or.
if he re occupies the land after eviction.
the appropriate authority shall prosecute him under s 188 of the indian penal code.
for short the bombay rules are in pari materia with the rules.
rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for the procedure to be followed by the town planning officer.
rules 26 of the rules do not contemplate service of individual notice.
we may also take notice of the decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji.
darji1991 indlaw sc 975 supra wherein this court opined that sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules was mandatory in nature subject of course to the condition that on the crucial date viz when the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette he whether an owner or tenant or sub tenant must be in possession of the property.
in jaswantsingh mathurasingh1991 indlaw sc 972 suprait was reiterated that a tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
in that context it was held the question is whether the tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
but he must be in possession of the property on the crucial date i e when.
the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette.
rule 213however of the bombay rules has been amended in tune with rule 26 of the rules.
amended rules are in pari materia with rule 26 of the rules.
appellant was a tenant in respect of plot no 178 plot no 177 was not a plot contiguous thereto.
they were separated not only by a road but also by various other plots.
whether irrespective of rule 26 of the rules which prescribes for issuance of a general public notice any special notice upon the appellant was required to be served by the state or by the authority in our opinion cannot be gone into by us in these proceedings for the first time.
validity of rule 26 of the rules had never been questioned.
respondent no 4 was owner of both plot.
the question however would be what would be the consequence of non compliance thereof vis  vis the conduct of the appellant himself.
a person may waive a right either expressly or by necessary implication.
different statutes provide for different manner of service of notice.
in west bengal housing board etc v.
brijendra prasad gupta and others etc air 1997 sc 2745it was opined that the authority is not required to make a roaming enquiry as to who is the person entitled to notice.
we have referred to the said decisions only to show that the requirements in regard to the manner of service of notice varies from statute to statute and there exists a difference between the bombay rules and the rules.
every step taken by the state does not involve application of the doctrine of eminent domain.
in this case the appellant did not oppose the draft scheme.
it accepted that the state had a right to do so.
existence of a public purpose and increase in the valuation of the property was admitted.
there exists a distinction in the action of the planning authority as regards vesting of a property in it and one so as to enable it to create a third party interest vis  vis for the purpose of re allotment thereof.
in the former case the vesting of the land may be held to be an act of acquisition whereas in the latter it would be distribution of certain benefits having regard to the purpose sought to be achieved by a statute involving town planning.
s 67 of the act provides that all lands required by the appropriate authority shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances with effect from the date on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
what would be the quantum of payment of compensation therefor is also provided in s 82 of the act.
it is in the aforementioned situation a claim is to be made before the authority whenever a notice in form h is published.
the location of the land the area of the land the nature of right etc.
m g makwana ors 1967 3 scr 65 1967 indlaw sc 138.
in maneklal chhotalal1967.
indlaw sc 138 suprait was held therefore having due regard to the substantive and procedural aspects we are satisfied that the act imposes only reasonable restrictions in which case it is saved u art 195 of the constitution.
see also bhikhubhai vithlabhai patel ors v.
state of gujarat anr 2008 4 scale 278 2008 indlaw sc 527.
it was a dispute between two private parties as regards the right to obtain final allotment the principles underlying the same are not in dispute.
but we intend to emphasise that he has lost his right to enforce the same in a public law forum.
he has no enforceable claim against the state at this juncture.
in view of the above the issue is whether it was open to him to assert his purported right to special notice in respect of the final allotment in the instant case given the fact that he did not pursue his objections to the draft scheme and subsequently did not object participate during the proceedings for re allotment.
we are of the opinion that even if he had any such right he waived the same.
in halsbury 's laws of england volume 1624th edition para 907it is stated the expression waiver may in law bear different meanings.
as sir johan romilly m r has observed in vyvyan v vyvyan.
it was stated we may in this connection refer to the decision in wilson v mcintosh.
they referred with approval to the decision in phillips v martin where the chief justice said here there is abundant evidence of waiver and it is quite clear that a man may by his conduct waive a provision of an act of parliament intended for his benefit.
the caveator was not brought into court in any way until the caveat had lapsed.
and now the applicant after all these proceedings have been taken by him after doubtless much expense has been incurred on the part of the caveator and after lying by and hoping to get a judgment of the court in his favour asks the court to do that which but for some reasons known to himself he might have asked the court to do before any other step in the proceedings had been taken.
i think he is altogether too late.
but if it appears that the statutory conditions were inserted by the legislature simply for the security or benefit of the parties to the action themselves and that no public interests are involved such conditions will not be considered as indispensable and either party may waive them without affecting the jurisdiction of the court.
significantly a similar conclusion was reached in the case of krishna bahadur v purna theatre 2004 8 scc 229 2004.
statutory right however may also be waived by his conduct.
in ramdev food products pvt.
the answer to the said question must be rendered in the negative.
it is well settled that what can not be done directly can not be done indirectly.
such conduct precludes and operates as estoppel against him with respect to asserting a right over a portion of the acquired land in a situation where the scheme in question has attained finality following as a result of the appellant 's inaction.
issuance of any such direction in our opinion is legally impermissible.
he may however take recourse to such remedy which is available with him in law including one by filing a suit or making a representation before the state.
for the reasons aforementioned the appeal is dismissed.
