challenge in this appeal is to the order of a division bench of madras high court allowing the appeal filed by the respondent hereinafter referred to as the accused the accused was convicted for offence punishable under section 302 of the indian penal code1860 in short the ipc and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of rs 10000 with default stipulation by principal district judge madurai.
he was also convicted for offences punishable under section 392 read with section 397 ipc and sentence to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to pay a fine.
background facts in a nutshell are as follows.
the occurrence allegedly took place in the afternoon of 22 4 2003.
on the basis of the aforesaid f i r investigation was taken up initially by p w 40.
subsequently on the basis of the order of the high court such investigation was completed by p w 42 the accused is stated to have been arrested on suspicion on 26 4 2003 on the basis of the statement of the accused prosecution discovered many materials including a knife and a log allegedly used for killing.
p 12 dated 22 9 2003 made before p w 42 and subbiah and p w 24led to recovery of m dollar m 0 38 and key chain with key chain in m 0 39 from the toilet in the room of the accused.
the trial court found the respondent guilty and recorded conviction and imposed sentence as aforestated.
the trial court found that the prosecution version rested on circumstantial evidence.
the following circumstances were highlighted to find the accused guilty.
learned counsel for the respondent on the other hand supported the judgment of the high court.
the conviction based on circumstantial evidence has been highlighted by this court in various orders of this court.
state of a p 1996 10 scc.
193 1996 indlaw sc 3059wherein.
it has been observed thus.
in a case based on circumstantial evidence the settled law is that the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is drawn should be fully proved and such circumstances must be conclusive in nature.
further the proved circumstances must be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and totally inconsistent with his innocence.
in padala veera reddy v state of a p and ors air 1990.
in state of u p v.
ashok kumar srivastava1992 crl.
sir alfred wills in his admirable book wills circumstantial evidence chapter vi lays down the following rules specially to be observed in the case of circumstantial evidence 1 the facts alleged as the basis of any legal inference must be clearly proved and beyond reasonable doubt connected with the factum probandum 2 the burden of proof is always on the party who asserts the existence of any fact which infers legal accountability 3 in all cases whether of direct or circumstantial evidence the best evidence must be adduced which the nature of the case admits 4 in order to justify the inference of guilt the inculpatory facts must be incompatible with the innocence of the accused and incapable of explanation upon any other reasonable hypothesis than that of his guilt 5 if there be any reasonable doubt of the guilt of the accused he is entitled as of right to be acquitted.
in hanumant govind nargundkar and anr.
v state of madhya.
the conditions precedent in the words of this court before conviction could be based on circumstantial evidence must be fully established.
they are 1 the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.
information as to past user or the past history of the object produced is not related to his discovery in the setting in which it is discovered.
but if to the statement the words be added with which stabbed athese words are inadmissible since they do not related to the discovery of the knife in the house of the informant.
the various requirements of the section can be summed up as follows.
the fact of which evidence is sought to be given must be relevant to the issue.
the fact must have been discovered.
the person giving the information must be accused of any offence.
he must be in the custody of a police officer.
the rest is inadmissible.
while testing the reliability of such evidence the court has to see whether it was voluntarily stated by the accused.
significantly the prosecution has relied upon the evidence of pw 40 who was investigating initially.
the alleged statement made by the accused led to discovery of knife bloodstained clothes rope etc.
unfortunately for the prosecution there is no evidence to show that in fact the wearing apparels containing bloodstains belonged to the accused save and except the alleged confessional statement.
the knife did not contain any bloodstain.
the next recovery relates to recovery of computer and accessories.
apart from the fact that there is niggling doubt about the so called confession in view of statement under section 164 of the code of p w 22 and the statement of c w 1a further doubt is raised regarding such aspect in view of evidence of c w 1 to the effect that he had seen such computer in the room of the deceased when they had gone to the room after the offence was reported.
the fact that c w 1 is a close relation of the deceased adds weight to his evidence rather than taking it away.
it is quite possible that such articles might have been borrowed by the accused from the deceased and not necessarily stolen by the accused from the deceased after killing her.
the fact that p w 9 had not initially stated anything before p w 40 about the accused coming down with computer at 3 30 p m and stated so for the first time when she was re examined after 5 months can not be lost sight of.
i did not tell this even to the inspector of police after going to the police station.
i do not tell this even to p w 1.
the next recovery relates to the ingots.
for the aforesaid aspect the evidence of p ws 1718 and 19 is relevant.
since the golden jewellery had been molten and were recovered in the shape of ingots it would be very hazardous to come to the conclusion that in fact the golden jewellery belonged to the deceased.
the fact that ear rings were on the dead body is admitted by the prosecution.
so far as the first confession statement made before p w 40 is concerned admittedly the accused was under physical custody at that time whereas at the time of last confession stated to have been made before p w 42the accused was on bail and he had been summoned by p w 42 for further examination and therefore technically in custody.
such alleged confession made belatedly thus creates doubt regarding its authenticity or voluntariness.
the fact that there had been a statement allegedly made by p w 1 leading to recovery of a parallel key from the dash board of the car of p w 1cannot be lost sight of.
the appeal is dismissed.
