yakshagana is a form of ballet dance.
it has its own heritage.
indisputably dr kota shivarama karanth for shortdr.
he developed a new form of yakshagana.
he was a director of the appellant institute.
ganga charitha.
plaintiff respondent admittedly claimed copyright in respect of literary and artistic works in her favour in terms of clauses 11 and 12 of the said will dated 18 6 1994which read as under 11 since i left the house suhasa i have been living in a specially built house manasa of smt.
malini mallya who has built it with borrowed money at her cost.
in my opinion very long enduring and a signal service she has done to me and to my literary works is in writing a bibliography of all my books a highly meritorious and scholarly work involving so much of pains taking research that it has been acclaimed and rated as the first of its kind in kannada and highly appreciated by critics and scholars.
this work also has brought her deserving fame and appreciation of scholars.
malini mallya and she alone shall be entitled to receive royalties of all my books and she shall be entitled to print publish and republish and market the same.
whatever she may earn thereby shall be her exclusive income and property.
and i have distributed all copper and bronze vessels and utensils among my children while leaving my former home suhasa keeping only bare essential and necessary things and articles.
malini malya only.
no one else shall have any claim or right over the same.
malini mallya alone.
plaintiff respondent inter alia prayed for passing a judgment and decree against the defendants appellants granting the following reliefs 1 a declaration that the plaintiff is the exclusive copyright holder in respect of yaksharanga ballets namely bhishma vijaya kanakangi nala damayanthi panchavati gaya charitha chitrangadha abhimanyu vadha and for consequential permanent injunction restraining the defendants their agents employees etc from staging or performing any of the above said 7 ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof.
by reason of a judgment and decree dated 14 11 2003the district judge udupi decreed the said suit declaring the plaintiff respondent as a person having the exclusive copyright in respect of seven prasangas and that she had acquired the same by reason of a will as a residuary legatee and the defendants appellants or their employees or agents were restrained from performing the said seven ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by dr karanth.
appellants are thus before us.
i the copyright in the literary work has been assigned by reason of the said will in favour of the respondent in terms of clause 12 of the will.
it was however urged.
i keeping in view of the findings of the learned trial judge it ought to have been held that no cause of action arose against the appellants in this case as the institution had performed the said dance at new delhi in the memory of dr karanth without charging any fees.
the form of injunction granted in favour of the plaintiff respondent is not in terms of the provisions of the copyright act1957 as the appellant as an institution or otherwise is entitled to use the same in terms of clauses ai and l of sub section 1 of section 52 thereof.
section 2 is the interpretation section.
ii a work of architecture and iii any other work of artistic craftsmanship.
section 17 of the act deals with first owner of copyrightin terms whereof subject to the provisions of the act the author of a work shall be the owner of the copyright therein.
22 term of copyright in published literary dramatic musical and artistic works.
except as otherwise hereinafter provided copyright shall subsist in any literary dramatic musical or artistic work other than a photograph published within the life time of the author until fifty years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
explanation in this section the reference to the author shall in the case of a work of joint authorship be construed as a reference to the author who dies last.
23 term of copyright in anonymous and pseudonymous works  1.
certain acts not to be infringement of copyright  1.
private use including research ii criticism or review whether of that work or of any other work xxx xxx xxx i the performance in the course of the activities of an educational institution of a literary dramatic or musical work by the staff and student of the institution or of a cinematograph film or a sound recording if the audience is limited to such staff and students the parents and guardians of the students and persons directly connected with the activities of the institution or the communication to such an audience of a cinematograph film or sound recording.
has the plaintiff became entitled to the said right under the registered will dated 18 06 1994.
indisputably in view of the submissions made at the bar respondent had acquired copyright in respect of seven yakshagana prasangas as also in respect of yakshagana dramatic or theatrical form as a residuary legatee in terms of clause 12 of the will dated 18 6 1994.
but that is not all in the will ex.
therefore the main classification as literary work and dramatic work can not be construed to mean that dramatic work has nothing to do with literary work.
the only difference i see in them is that the dramatic work plays forms the text upon which the performance of the plays rests whereas a literary work enables one to read the printed words.
neither of the two can be produced without the imaginative skill of the author.
i therefore hold that the bequest of copyright in literary works and books in favour of the plaintiff by dr karanth will have to be treated as the bequest covering the dramatic works also since i have also drawn the conclusion that the dramatic works is also a form of literature.
therefore necessity of mentioning copyright separately in respect of dramatic works does not arise.
the plaintiff therefore is entitled to copyright even in respect of the dramatic works namely the seven prasangas by virtue of bequest made in her favour in respect of copyrights and books.
keeping in view the statutory provisions there can not be any doubt whatsoever that copyright in respect of performance of dance would not come within the purview of the literary work but would come within the purview of the definition of dramatic work.
for the aforementioned reasons we agree with dr dhavan that paragraph 12 of the will namely residuary clause shall apply in the instant case apart from the areas which are otherwise covered by paragraph 11 of the will.
the learned trial judge recognized the equitable interest vested in the plaintiff respondent.
a declaratory decree therefore was passed.
we may notice at this stage that the form of injunction granted both by the learned trial judge as also by the high court in favour of the plaintiff respondent.
the operative part of the judgment of the trial court reads as under defendants or their employees or agents are restrained from performing the above said 7 ballets or prasangas or in parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by dr karanth by way of permanent injunction.
the high court however directed iii.
as far as the restraint order passed by the trial court by granting permanent injunction to the plaintiff is concerned the same is modified by ordering that if the appellants desire to stage any of the seven yakshagana prasangas in the manner and form as conceived in all respects viz.
decree for injunction is an equitable relief.
the court while passing such a decree is obligated to consider the statutory provisions governing the same.
in r g anand vs m s delux films ors 1978.
in such a case the courts should determine whether or not the similarities are on fundamental or substantial aspects of the mode of expression adopted in the copyrighted work.
no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.
7 where.
however the question is of the violation of the copyright of stage play by a film producer or a director the task of the plaintiff becomes more difficult to prove piracy.
even so if the viewer after seeing the film gets a totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original play violation of the copyright may be said to be proved.
copyright has nothing to do with originality or literary merit.
we make it clear that the decision of ours would be confined to the judgments of the courts which are in the public domain as by virtue of section 52 of the act there is no copyright in the original text of the judgments.
to claim copyright in a compilation the author must produce the material with exercise of his skill and judgment which may not be creativity in the sense that it is novel or non obvious but at the same time it is not a product of merely labour and capital.
section 52 of the act provides for certain acts which would not constitute an infringement of copyright.
yet again if such performance is conducted before a non paying audience by the appellant which is an institution if it comes within the purview of amateur club or society the same would not constitute any violation of the said order of injunction.
with the aforementioned modification in the order of injunction this appeal is dismissed.
however in the facts and circumstances of the case there shall be no order as to costs.
appeal dismissed.
