these three appeals by special leave are directed against the order dated september 92004 passed by intellectual property appellate board for shortipab whereby it ordered the removal of appellant 's mark infosys from the register of trade marks in respect of computer stationery computer manuals printed matter for computer instructional and teaching materials computer hardware and peripherals and machine and machine tools.
the appellant is infosys technologies limited.
it was incorporated and registered under the companies act1956 on july 21981 in the name of infosys consultants private limited.
on april 211992the name of the company infosys consultants pvt.
limited was changed to infosys technologies pvt.
ltd and thereafter on june 21992the name was changed to the present name i e.
infosys technologies limited.
the first respondent is jupiter infosys limited.
the first respondent was incorporated and registered in september 1978 under the name of jupiter agencies pvt.
the name of the first respondent was changed to jupiter infosys p limited in august1995 and now since july2003the name is changed to jupiter international limited.
the appellant also prayed for an interim order in the suit.
the ad interim order was confirmed on november 291996.
the single judge of the madras high court passed an interim restraint order on february 12001 against the first respondent.
the said order was confirmed on may 222001 to remain operative till disposal of suit.
the appellant opposed these applications on diverse grounds by filing counter affidavits.
on august 122003the madras high court framed the following issues.
a whether the mark applied for registration was used in respect of the goods for which the mark was registered.
cwhether the mark registered in favour of the respondent is a service mark.
dwhether there is a non use of registered trade mark by the respondent for a period of over 5 years and 1 month.
fwhether the registered trade mark has lost its distinctiveness and is liable to be removed under section 32c.
g whether the respondent has committed fraud while obtaining registration of the mark and.
hto what further relief.
some more facts may be noticed.
in that suit the appellant also made an application for grant of temporary injunction.
perused the averments made in the suit and application which are duly supported by documents on record.
compliance of order xxxix rule 3 cpc within three days.
the said suit was transferred to the court of the additional district judge tis hazari court delhi.
based on this affidavit the suit was partially decreed in favour of the appellant on november 102004.
in 2007however the first respondent filed a suit in the court of additional district judge delhi for setting aside the decree dated november 102004 that suit is said to be pending.
the ipab proceeded with the matter in light of the issues that were already framed by the high court and heard the parties.
as regards class 9 he would submit that in view of the affidavit filed by the first respondent on july 142004 in the court of additional district judge delhi the first respondent ceases to be an aggrieved person on the date of consideration of the rectification application.
learned counsel heavily relied upon two decisions of this court 1 hardie trading ltd anr v.
addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 and 2 kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances company ors 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
in this regard he relied upon m s eagle potteries.
private ltd v.
m s eagle flask industries pvt.
ltd air 1993 bombay 185 1992 indlaw mum 6327 lever brothers port sunlight ld v.
sunniwite products ld 1949 66 rpc 84.
the ritz hotel v charles of the ritz 1989.
rpc 333 and australian wine importers trade mark.
6 rpc 311.
learned counsel thus submitted that the impugned order is unsustainable and liable to be set aside.
he argued that the appellant has not taken the plea of the first respondent not being a person aggrieved with respect to filing of the applications for rectification before the ipab merely urging the plea that the first respondent has no locus standi in the written submissions before the ipab is not sufficient.
with reference to the affidavit dated july 142004 filed by the first respondent before the court of additional district judge he submitted that the said affidavit has no relevance in consideration as to whether the first respondent is an aggrieved person as section 46 1 of the 1958 act relates only to the period upto the date of the filing of the rectification application and the rights of the parties crystallized at that stage itself.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in agha hyder hussain anr v.
omar khayyam wineries pvt ltd anr air 1977 mad 166.
1976 indlaw mad 380.
he also placed reliance upon some more decisions viz ritz hotel ltd 1989.
rpc 333philosophy di alberta ferretti 2003 r p c 15.
keystone knitting mills trade mark1929 1 ch.
d 92 and motor terms company pty limited v.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in nestle 's products india.
ltd v.
p thankaraja.
anr air 1978 mad 336 he submitted that appellant is primarily in service industry which is unregistrable under the 1958 act and since the appellant is not trading in the goods in respect of which it is registered it can not be said that the mark of the appellant is distinctive of its goods.
in any case learned counsel would submit that the expression infosys is not descriptive expression.
we are afraid this is hardly an objection about maintainability.
apart from it on september 122005 after hearing both parties special leave was granted by this court.
in the backdrop of these peculiar facts in our view it is not appropriate to relegate the 17 appellant at this distance of time to challenge the impugned order passed by the ipab in writ petition before the high court.
the objection about maintainability of the appeals is accordingly overruled.
the moot question which has been debated before us is whether or not the first respondent is an aggrieved person.
s 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register 1.
the tribunal of its own motion may after giving notice in the prescribed manner to the parties concerned and after giving them an opportunity of being heard make any order referred to in sub section 1 or sub section 2.
the position that emerges from the above provisions is this.
section 461 of the 1958 act enables any person aggrieved to apply for removal of registered trade mark from the register on the ground of non use as stated in clause a andor clause b to be an aggrieved person under section 46he must be one whose interest is affected in some possible way it must not be a fanciful suggestion of grievance.
we accept the above statement of law.
in hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 2003 11 scc 92this court stated as follows the phrase person aggrieved is a common enough statutory precondition for a valid complaint or appeal.
the phrase has been variously construed depending on the context in which it occurs.
three sections viz sections 4656 and 69 of the act contain the phrase.
section 46 deals with the removal of a registered trade mark from the register on the ground of non use.
this section presupposes that the registration which was validly made is liable to be taken off by subsequent non user.
such type of actions are commenced for the purity of the register which it is in public interest to maintain.
applications under sections 46 and 56 may be made to the registrar who is competent to grant the relief.
since we are not concerned with a certification trade mark the process for registration of which is entirely different we may exclude the interpretation of the phrase person aggrieved occurring in section 69 from consideration for the purposes of this judgment.
in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under section 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in section 56 for cancelling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
in the latter case the locus standi would be ascertained liberally since it would not only be against the interest of other persons carrying on the same trade but also in the interest of the public to have such wrongful entry removed.
it was in this sense that the house of lords defined person aggrieved in the matter of powell 's trade mark although they were no doubt inserted to prevent officious interference by those who had no interest at all in the register being correct and to exclude a mere common informer it is undoubtedly of public interest that they should not be unduly limited inasmuch as it is a public mischief that there should remain upon the register a mark which ought not to be there and by which many persons may be affected who nevertheless would not be willing to enter upon the risk and expense of litigation.
the high court and the joint registrar fell into error in not drawing this distinction.
in the case of hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1this court approved the test applied by romer j in the royal baking powder company v wright crossley and co 1898.
15 rpc 677which has been reproduced in the report.
we respectfully agree.
hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1 has been followed by this court in a recent decision in the case of kabushiki kaisha toshiba 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
this court stated that section 46 speaks for private interest while section 56 speaks of a public interest.
it is true that the appellant in opposition to the applications for removal rectification of trade mark did not specifically challenge in its counter affidavits the locus standi of the first respondent to be heard as a person aggrieved.
in our considered view it was.
secondly and more importantly during the pendency of the applications certain events had taken place which had some bearing on the question of locus standi of the first respondent insofar as invocation of section 46 1 of the 1958 act is concerned.
this is so because the pre requisite for exercise of power under section 461 is that the applicant is a person aggrieved.
in our view the grievance of the applicant when he invokes section 461 must not only be taken to have existed on the date of making application but must continue to exist when such application is decided.
we concur with the above statement.
in view of the above these appeals are allowed in part and the impugned order dated september 92004 is set aside.
the parties shall bear their own costs.
appeals allowed.
