leave granted in slp crl.
the appellant raju.
pw 1 dr.
sharda prasad tripathi is the husband of accused shashi tripathi.
on 25 11 2003when pw 1 dr.
the crime was registered.
he deposed in court that on 25 11 2003when he returned home he found servant anil kumar pw 21 was weeping.
bhavna was dead.
shashi was unconscious.
after registration of the crime inquest was conducted over the dead body of bhavna on 26 11 2003 post mortem was conducted by dr naresh tiwari and dr m deodhar who gave their report which is marked as exhibit p18 spot map was prepared by the inquiry officer io bloodstained cloth of accused shashi tripathi was taken into possession along with broken bangles bloodstained cement mortar and plain cement mortar were also taken into possession.
shashi tripathi mahesh and binu.
the accused raju.
a test identification was conducted by the executive magistrate in the sub jail bemetara on 13 12 2003 a similar identification parade of raju.
she engaged the other accused for murdering bhavna.
there is no dispute that bhavna 's death is homicidal.
x 1  cm 3.
4 incised wound on lower costal region left of size.
3  cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3  cm.
x 3 cm with punctured wound 6 incised wound over right costal region of size 3 cm x 2 cm x 1 cm.
cm x cm x  cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
x 1  cm.
x 3 cm lobe was cut and there was 3 cm punctured wound.
incised wound was also present on the right lobe of size 3 cm x 13 cm x 3 cm.
liver kidney and spleen were pale.
the deceased was carrying fetus of two months.
the sole eyewitness was a boy of 13 years of age anil kumar pw 21who worked as a servant with the family.
shashi tripathi had brought him home from bilaspur.
we have carefully examined the manner in which the identification parade was conducted and the manner in which the boy anil kumar pw 21 identified the accused in court and we have no reason to doubt the identification of the accused which assumes importance in this case since the boy did not know the accused before the incident.
he deposed before the court that shashi didi accused brought him to village jevra from bilaspur.
he lived in the house of shashi didi.
he ate his food there and studied in a school.
she resided with shashi didi.
his brother shivendra studies at calcutta.
he referred to bhavna as bhabhi.
he stated that shashi didi and bhavna sometimes used to quarrel.
the incident occurred in the courtyard and shashi didi was present in the passage.
mahesh the fourth accused was standing outside the house.
thereafter all the three accused fled from there.
he further deposed that shashi didi took him upstairs to the terrace and asked him not to disclose the truth to anyone but to say that thieves came into the house and committed the crime.
shashi didi thereafter started shouting.
then she lay down on the courtyard near bhavna bhabhi.
devendra choubey accused no 4 by paying them money.
the prosecution has found it difficult to pinpoint the motive but shashi tripathi 's husband dr sharda prasad tripathi pw 1 deposed before the court that she tried to create a hindrance in the marriage of his son jitendra since she wanted her daughter abhilasha to marry him however he went ahead with the marriage of jitendra to bhavna whereupon shashi tripathi remained silent.
the credibility of the evidence of anil kumar pw 21 was attacked by the learned counsel for the appellants who submitted that the boy is a tutored witness who has been influenced by the police with whom he spent a lot of time.
the learned counsel submitted that the evidence of a child witness must be carefully scrutinized before acceptance since a child can be easy prey for tutoring and the court must insist on corroboration from other evidence.
there was no reason for the sole eye witness anil pw 21 to implicate anybody falsely.
the incident occurred within the four walls of the house of the accused shashi tripathi and the only witness was the boy anil.
it was submitted that the test identification parade were delayed and the identification of these accused by the witness in court was not reliable.
it is not possible for us to accept this contention.
as a general rule the substantive evidence of a witness is a statement made in court.
there may however be exceptions to this general rule when for example the court is impressed by a particular witness on whose testimony it can safely rely without such or other corroboration.
the identification parades belong to the investigation stage.
identification proceedings in their legal effect amount simply to this that certain persons are brought to jail or some other place and make statements either express or implied that certain individuals whom they point out are persons whom they recognise as having been concerned in the crime.
they do not constitute substantive evidence.
keeping in view the purpose of identification parades the magistrates holding them are expected to take all possible precautions to eliminate any suspicion of unfairness and to reduce the chance of testimonial error.
they must therefore take intelligent interest in the proceedings bearing in mind two considerations i that the life and liberty of an accused may depend on their vigilance and caution and ii that justice should be done in the identification.
the identification to be of value should also be held without much delay.
the observations of this court undoubtedly lay down the correct law and we have no reason to doubt them.
we however do not see how the observations help the appellants.
in the present case the child witness has been found to be reliable.
he became the unfortunate witness of a gruesome murder and fearlessly identified the accused in court.
state of andhra pradesh air 1983.
suffice it to say that those cases do not create any doubt as regards the conviction in this case.
state of bihar 1999 8 scc 555 1999 indlaw sc 693.
state of m p 2012.
9 scc 696 2012 indlaw sc 343.
there is no evidence of his having played any part in the crime.
there is no evidence of the formation or sharing of any common intention with the other accused.
having regard to the role attributed to him and the absence of incriminating factors we find that it is not safe to convict mahesh of the offence of murder with the aid of ss 34 and 120b.
we therefore hold that the accused mahesh accused no 3 in criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 is innocent and the conviction against him is set aside.
his bail bonds stand cancelled and sureties are discharged.
in view of the above criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 is allowed and criminal appeal nos 822 of 2012589 of 2014 and criminal appeal arising out of slp criminal no 3737 of 2014 are dismissed.
appeals disposed of.
