Appeal No 68 of 1964.
This appeal pursuant to a certificate granted by the Allahabad High Court under section 66A2 of the Income tax Act hereinafter referred to as the Act is directed against the judgment of the High Court in a reference under the Act answering the question referred to it in the negative.
The district of Benaras was formerly a part of Oudh territory.
By a Treaty between the East India Company Nawab Asfuddaula in or about the year 1775 the province of Benaras was ceded to the British Government.
The British Government granted a sanad of Raj to Raja Chet Singh who in turn gave the Jagir of Parganas Seyedpore and Bhittery in perpetuity to Babu Ausan Singh.
The quantum of this pension was calculated on the basis of 14th of the revenue of the Jagir.
By this arrangement the revenue or land collections of Jagir became payable by the Zamindars direct to the Government and by the grant of the pension Babu Hat Narain Singh and his successors no longer remained the proprietors of the Parganas or the Jagir and became entitled to merely a pension.
The letter by which the amount of pension was determined at Rs 363228 is dated 7th of July 1837 and was from H Elliot Esqr the Secretary Sadar Board of Revenue NWP Allahabad to J Thompson Esqr Offg.
Secretary to Lt Government NWP.
The pension was paid regularly from year to year by the Government to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs.
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 43viii of the Income tax Act.
The learned Additional Solicitor General on behalf of the appellant contends that according to the true interpretation of the letter dated July 7 1837 no right in the land revenue was granted to the assessee.
We are unable to agree with his contention.
And rent is not land within the meaning of the definition This Court observed in Mrs Bacha F Guzdar Bombay Commissioner of Income tax Bombay4 as follow Agricultural income as defined in the Act is intended to refer to the revenue received by direct association with the land which is used for agricultural purposes and not by indirectly extending it to cases where that revenue or part thereof changes hands either by way of distribution of dividends or otherwise 1  2 3 16 ITR325 4 705 The same test was adopted by this Court in Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa1 and the Court again looked to the source of the right in order to determine whether income was agricultural income or not.
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commissioner of Inland Revenue vs Wesleyan and General Assurance Society1 It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income tax.
 He therefore asked us to disregard the word pension  in the letter dated July 7 1837 and determine the real character of the payment.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
