iminal Appeal No112 of 1965.
Appeal by special leave from the jurisdiction and order dated April 29 1965 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Misc Contempt Case No 43 of 1965.
A section R Chari M K Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar and Shyamala Pappu for the appellants.
O P Rana for respondent No 1.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
The High Court held that the five appellants had disobeyed an order of stay passed by it staying proceedings pending before the Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas District Deoria.
The relevant facts are these.
On September 10 1963 the Nyaya Panchayat assembled and evidence was led before it.
On November 28 1963 the SDM rejected this application.
On December 13 1963 a notice was issued to the five members of the Panchayat to assemble on December 25 1963 and hear the case.
On December 20 1963 Mahabir moved an application under article 227 of the Constitution challenging the order of the SDM dated November 28 1963 and on the same day the High Court admitted the application and stayed further proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
An urgent copy of the order was applied for and obtained on that very day and the counsel sent a telegram in the following words Allahabad He 20 Baldeopd cashier Trust Sdr GR Mahabir application admitted stay granted Banwarilal.
 117 It is alleged on the side of the applicant Mahabir that immediately after the receipt of the telegram an application accompanied by an affidavit and the telegram of his counsel in the High Court was presented before the Nyaya Panchayat with the prayer to stay further proceedings but the Sarpanch refused to take it.
No application dated December 21 1963 which was not accepted by the Nyaya Panchayat has been produced.
On December 23 1963 Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R Singh SDM Deoria alleging that writ petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.
It happened that the SDM was absent on December 23 1963 and papers were put up before Shri section K Srivas tava Additional Sub Divisional Magistrate who issued the order Put up with records.
But as the notice against Shri Srivastava has been discharged by the High Court we need not give any further details about his various orders On December 25 1963 the Nyaya Panchayat met and proceeded to hear the case.
The statements of the complainant and his witnesses Bhabhuti and Damri are recorded.
 This order was signed by three Panchas Phagu Parsad Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.
Sir It is submitted that I have filed a writ petition in the above case in the High Court.
It has been admitted by the High Court which has stayed proceedings also in this case.
that it has not been sworn to before any person authorised to administer oaths.
 Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad pairokar of Mahabir Burma Prasad the Sarpanch and Mahabir and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
Phagu Prasad.
We had also told him to get the affidavit verified before some Tehsil authority.
According to him the Panchas did not tell Mahabir that his affidavit was not proper they however told him to get it verified in Tehsil and that it should be duly sealed.
The High Court held  There was no reasonable ground for the Panchas to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat nor is there any thing in the order sheet to show that the Panchas did not believe the contents of the application and affidavit of Mahabir.
However if they wanted to ascertain the matter they should have at best stayed the proceedings for a short while and should have asked the applicant to produce a certified copy of the stay order.
In order to justify committal for breach of a prohibitive order it is not necessary that the order should have been served upon the party against whom it has been granted if it be proved that he had notice of the order aliunde as by telegram or newspaper report or otherwise and knew that it was intended to be enforced or if he consented to the order or if he was present in Court when the order Was pronounced or hen the motion was made although he left before the order was pronounced.
