Appeal No 1940 of 1967.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
By insistence upon procedural wrangling in a com paratively simple suit pending in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad the parties have effectively prevented all progress in the suit during the last six years.
A building in the town of Ahmedabad used as a cinematograph theatre belonged originally to Messrs Popatlal Punjabhai.
estate of the owners and on August 19 1954 the receivers estate of the owners and on August 19 1954 The receivers granted a lease of the theatre on certain terms and conditions to two persons Raval and Faraqui.
By an agreement dated November 27 1954 between Raval and Faraqui on the one hand and Messrs Filmistan Distributors India Private Ltd hereinafter called Filmistan on the other hand right to exhibit cinematograph films was granted to the latter on certain terms and conditions.
By an order dated December 1 1960 the suit was disposed of as compromised.
It was inter alia agreed that Raval and Faraqui were bound and liable to allow Filmistan to exercise its exhibition rights in the theatre that Raval and Faraqui their servants and agents were not to have any right to exhibit any picture in contravention of the terms and conditions of the agreement dated November 27 1954 and that Raval and Faraqui shall execute and register an agreement in writing incorporating the said agreement with the variation as to rental.
in the theatre and that one Shabeer Hussain Khan Tejabwala had no right title or interest in the theatre that the defendants in the suit be ordered to hand over vacant and peaceful possession of the theatre and the defendants their servants and agents be restrained by an injunction from interfering directly or indirectly with its rights to obtain and remain in possession of the theatre or any part thereof and to exercise its right of exhibiting motion pictures and entertainment performances etc.
This suit was filed against the receivers in insolvency of the owners of the theatre against Raval and Faraqui against Tejabwala and also against Baldevdas Shivlal who claimed to be the owner of the theatre.
The suit was based on the claim by Filmistan as lessees or sub lessees of the theatre and was exclusively triable by the Court of Small Causes by virtue of section 28 of the Bombay Rents Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act 1947.
Three sets of written statements were filed against the claim made by Filmistan but no reference need be made thereto since at this stage in deciding appeal the merits of the pleas raised by the defendants are not relevant.
After issues were raised on June 20 1966 the plaint was amended and additional written statements were filed by the Defendants.
The learned Judge was then requested to frame three additional issues in view of the amended pleadings  the issues were 1.
The learned Judge observed that the issues were not purely of law that in any event the case or any part thereof was not likely to be disposed of on these issues and that ordinarily in appealable cases the Court should as far as possible decide all the issues together and that piecemeal trial might result in protracting the litigation.
A revision application against that order was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Gujarat.
Thereafter elaborate arguments were advanced and the Trial Judge passed an order disallowing the objection.
The objection to the question raised by Filmistan was not that it related to a matter to be decided by the Court and on which the opinion of witnesses was irrelevant.
The Trial Judge observed that he had carefully gone through the consent decree and the registered agreement dated December 1 1960 and he found that the consent decree had not decided that the transaction between the parties of the year 1954 was in the nature of a lease that in the plaint in the earlier suit it was not even averred that the rights granted were in the nature of leasehold rights that suit No 149 of 1960 was for declaration of the rights of Filmistan to exhibit motion pictures in the theatre under the agreement dated November 27 1954 and for an injunction restraining the defendants from violating the said rights of Filmistan under the agreement and that the agreement dated December 1 1960 was not plain enough to exclude the oral evidence of the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the parties to explain its terms and language.
The revision petition was entertained and elaborate arguments were advanced at the Bar.
It is not open to any Court of law to try an issue over again or reopen the same if an earlier decision operates as res judicata.
By section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure the High Court is invested with power to call for the record of any case decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereo if such subordinate court appears a to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law or b to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or c to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity and to make such order in the case as it thinks fit.
Exercise of the power is broadly subject to three important conditions 1 that the decision is of a Court subordinate to the High Court 2 that there is a case which has been decided by the subordinate Court and 3 that the subordinate Court has exercised jurisdiction not vested in it by law or to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.
A matter in contest in a suit may operate as res judicata only if there is an adjudication by the Court  the terms of section II of the Code leave no scope for a contrary view.
The expression case is not limited in its import to the entirety of the matter in dispute in an action.
To interpret the expression case as an entire proceeding only and not a part of the proceeding imposes an unwarranted restriction on the exercise of powers of superintendence and may result in certain cases in denying relief to the aggrieved litigant where it is most needed and may result in the perpetration of gross injustice.
GC Appeal allowed.
