Whether the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry New Delhi Respondent 1 is a commercial establishment within the meaning of s25 of the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 1954 for short the Act is the sale question that falls for determination in this appeal by certificate directed against the judgment dated February 8 1967 of the High Court of Delhi.
The facts bearing on this question may now be stated Respondent 1 hereinafter referred to as the Federation is a Company registered under section 26 of the Indian Companies Act 1913.
The primary objects of the Federation as given in the Memorandum of Association are a To promote Indian business in matters of inland and foreign trade transport industry and manufactures finance and all other economic subjects and to encourage Indian banking shipping and insurance.
fTo provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising in the course of trade industry or transport or other business matters and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
1 To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
m To help in the Organisation of Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations in different commercial centres of the country.
n O p q r s t u v x y To sell or dispose of the undertaking of the Federation or any part thereof for such consideration as the Federation may think fit and in particular for shares debentures or securities of any other association or company having objects altogether or in similar to those of the Federation.
 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
This contention was also rejected with the observation that since the earlier part of the definition refers to some particular business or trade carried on in a premises the words any work in connection with or incidental or necessary thereto obviously refer to such particular business or trade and not to trade or business in general .
As regards the preliminary objection it is true that before the High Court it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
therein the Memorandum of Association Articles of Association and the other material placed before the court were closely examined.
In the matter.
