Appeal No 205 of 1954.
On appeal from the judgment and order dated the 978 13th April 1954 of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No 49 of 1954 arising out of the order dated the 31st day of March 1954 of the said High Court exercising its Ordinary Original Jurisdiction in Misc.
Petition No 55 of 1954.
K T Desai P N Bhagwati Rameshwar Nath and Rajinder Narain for the appellants.
C K Daphtary Solicitor General of India Porus A Mehta and B H Dhebar with him for the respondent.
November 10.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMA AYYAR J.
This appeal raises a question as to the powers of a Custodian of Evacuee Property to cancel a lease granted by him under section 12 of the XXXI of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act.
Messrs Abdul Karim and Brothers owned along with certain other properties which are not the subject matter of the present appeal three mills with bungalows and chawls at Ambernath in Thana District and the Bobbin Factory at Tardeo in Bombay.
They having migrated to Pakistan these properties were declared by a notification dated 12 9 1951 issued under section 7 of the Act as evacuee property and under section 81 of the Act they became vested in the respondent as the Custodian for the State.
There was firstly a demise under which the mills and the factory in question were leased to the appellants for a period of five years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
On 12 2 1954 the respondent issued a notice to the appellants Exhibit C wherein be set out that the appellants had systematically committed breaches of the various terms on which the properties bad been leased to them and called upon them to show cause why the lease should not be cancelled and why they should not be evicted.
The notice then went on to state that the respondent considered it necessary to issue certain directions for the preservation of the demised premises and the goods and stock in trade etc lying in the demised premises and the appellants were accordingly required not to remove the stock or raise any money on the security thereof and to send daily reports to the Custodian of the transactions with reference thereto.
In support of the petition the appellants urged that section 12 under which the respondent purported to act authorised the cancellation of only leases granted by the evacuee and not by the Custodian himself and that no directions could be given under section 10 as it applied only to properties of the evacuee and that by reason of the sale the movables in question had become the property of the appel 124 980 lants.
But he con tends that this power could be exercised only so as to override a bar imposed by any law but not the contract under which the lease is held and this result flows according to him from the language of the non obstante clause which is limited to anything contained in any other law for the time being in force and does not include or any contract between the parties.
This provision is obviously intended to repel a possible contention that section 12 does not by implication repeal statutes conferring rights on lessees and cannot prevail as against them and has been inserted ex abundanti cautela.
It was next contended by Mr Desai that even if the Custodian had the power under section 12 to cancel the lease in favour of the appellants be bad no power under that section to cancel the agreement to sell the mills and the factory to them which was one of the matters contained in Exhibit A that the notice Exhibit C was to that extent without jurisdiction and that the respondent should accordingly be prohibited from cancelling that portion of Exhibit A in pursuance of Exhibit C.
2   213.
