The judgment of the Court was delivered by KAPUR J.
After the death of Amarchand the arrangement between the various partners in regard to the realisations of the old outstandings was that in respect of the work done up to the death of Amarchand the realisations were to be divided amongst Amarchand Mangaldas and Hiralal in respect of the work between July 8 1949 and November 30 1919 the realisations were to be divided between Mangaldas and Hiralal and in respect of work done after December 1 1949 the realisations were to be divided amongst Mangaldas Hiralal and Ramesh.
the notice under section 34 could validly be served only for the assessment years 1950 51 and notices for the subsequent years were invalid.
The order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was therefore upheld On the application of the Commissioner of 703 Income tax the following question of law was referred to the High Court  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the sums of Rs 37847  Rs 43162  Rs 34899  Rs 13402 and Rs 32523 were assessable to income tax in the hands of the assessee Amarchand N Shroff by his legal heirs and representatives in the five respective years under reference .
Section 24B is as follows  section 24B 11Tax of deceased person payable by represen tative 1 Where a person dies his executor administrator or other legal representative shall be liable to pay out of the estate of the deceased person to the extent to Which the estate 704 is capable of meeting the charge the tax assessed as payable by such person or any tax which would have been payable by him under this Act if he had not died.
 Sub section 1 provides that where a person dies his heirs and legal representatives are liable to pay out 705 of the estate of the deceased the tax assessed as payable by the deceased or any tax which would have been payable under the Act by the deceased if he had not died.
According to the submission of counsel for the Commissioner of Income tax the words of sub section.
1 or any tax which would have been payable by him under this Act if he had not died mean that irrespective of the date of  receipt of income receivable by a person if the income is received by his heirs and legal representatives after his death they are liable for payment of the tax just as the deceased would have been liable when the income was received had he been living.
Sub section 1 can be divided into two parts 1 where the income of the deceased was assessed before his death and 2 where the income was not so assessed but it would have been liable to tax had he not died.
The second part or the words above quoted when read with sub sections 2 and 3 show that they are confined to cases therein mentioned.
Sub section 2 provides that if a person dies before the publication of the public notice under s22 1 or before a notice is served on him under sub sections 2 of section 22 or section 34 then the Income tax Officer may proceed to compute or assess the total income of the deceased person as if the heirs and legal representatives were the assessees Sub section 3 provides that when a person dies before a return is furnished by him under the provisions of section 22 or dies after having furnished the return which the 1 1938 22 Tax.
15 706 Income tax Officer finds incorrect or incomplete then the Income tax Officer can make assessment on the total income of the deceased person and certain other consequences follow but in all the cases enumerated above the language used in sub sections 1 2 and 3 of s24B contemplates that the heirs and legal representatives of a deceased person are liable to pay income tax out of his estate 1 where assessment had already been made and 2 where he dies before the assessment but the income was received before his death or by his heirs and legal representatives after his death which occurs during the previous year.
If he dies before the publication of the notice under S221 or before the service under s222 or after the service but before he has furnished a return or filed an incorrect or incomplete return then the Income tax Officer should make an assessment of the total income of such deceased person and determine the tax payable thereupon.
Section 24B does not authorise levy of tax on receipts by the legal representatives of a deceased person in the years of assessment succeeding the year of account being the previous year in which such person died.
The assessee under the Act has ordinarily to be a living person and cannot be a dead person because his legal personality ceases on his death.
By section 24B the Legal personality of a deceased assessee is extended for the duration of the entire previous year in the course of which he died and therefore the income received by him before his death and that received by his heirs and legal representatives after his death but in that previous 707 year becomes assessable to income tax in the relevant assessment year.
The section was enacted by the Legislature to bring to tax after his death income received during his lifetime and fill up the lacuna which was pointed out by the High Court in Ellis C Reid vs Commissioner of Income tax Bombay1.
Any income received in the year subsequent to the previous or the account year cannot be called income received by the person deceased.
The provisions of section 24B do not extend to tax liability of the estate of a deceased person beyond the previous or the account year in which that person dies.
In support of his contention counsel for the Commissioner of Income tax relied upon the scheme of the Act as given in Additional Income tax Officer vs E Alfred2.
There is nothing said in that case which supports the contention raised by the Commissioner of Income tax.
Those observations also are of no assistance to the Commissioner of Income tax Kania J as he then was there observed that the question whether a particular amount was income or not had nothing to do with the time of its receipt and the question of receipt was material.
only for the purpose of determining whether on that amount tax was to be levied under the Act in the year of assessment.
That was a case where a consulting engineer discontinued his practice as such from February 15 1938 and he received a sum of money representing the outstanding professional fees earned by him prior to the discontinuance of his practice but realised by him during the Calendar year which was the previous year.
The assessee was keeping is accounts on cash basis and he contended that as he had discontinued his profession in the previous year the source had come to an nd and the amounts received by him were not liable to income tax.
It was held that the income was assessable.
TR 10.
At the time of his death there was a credit with the company of a sum of money on account of commission earned by him and due to him prior to the date of his death.
This sum was paid after his death in the previous year 1938 39 and was sought to be taxed under section 24B of the Income tax Act.
It was held that this income was taxable.
Derbyshire CJ said at p 205 that the assessee who was the widow had received the salary due to her husband that the Income tax Officer was entitled to assess the total income of the deceased person as if the legal representatives were the assessees and the amount was liable to tax under section 24B 1 but in that case also the amount was received by the widow in the previous year and it was earned by the deceased during the previous year.
The correct position is that apart from s24B no assessment can be made in respect of the income of a person after his death.
In that case and that was a case before section 24B was enacted a person was served with a notice under section 222 of the Income tax Act but no return was made within the period specified and he died.
It was held that no assessment could be made under section 234 of the Act after his death.
Every person liable to pay tax must necessary die and in practically every case before the last instalment has been collected and the legislature has not chosen to make any provisions expressly dealing with assessment of or recovering payment from the estate of a deceased person.
As was observed by this Court in Bengal Immunity Co Ltd vs The State of Bihar2 legal fictions are only for a definite purpose and they are limited to the purpose for which they are created and should not be extended beyond that legitimate field.
In the present case the fiction is limited to the cases provided in the three subsections of section 24B and cannot be extended further than the liability for the income received in the previous year.
2  664.
