The facts of the case and the argument of Counsel appear fully in the judgment.
concurred applied the test of what may be called reasonable classification and held that although the need for a speedier trial than what is possible under the procedure prescribed 291 by the Code of Criminal Procedure might form the basis of a reasonable classification and section 5 1 could not be regarded as discriminatory in so far as it authorises the State Government to direct that certain offences or classes of offences or classes of cases should be tried by a special court the provision was discriminatory and violative of article 14 of the Constitution in so far as it purported to vest in the State Government an absolute and arbitrary power to refer to a special court for trial any cases  which must include an individual case whether the duration of such a case is likely to be long or not .
delivered separate judgments agreeing with the conclusion of the Chief Justice Das Gupta J however going further and holding that section 5 1 was unconstitutional in its entirety inasmuch as the clas sification sought to be made on the expediency of speedier trial is not a well defined classification.
2  4  566 567 568.
By admitting only their relatives and friends 1  4  2  5   3 297 to apprenticeship the members of the board made it impossi ble with occasional exceptions for others to be appointed as State pilots.
 These decisions seem to my mind to reveal a change of approach marked by an increasing respect for the State s regulatory power in dealing with equal protection claims and underline the futility of wordy formulation of so called tests in solving problems presented by concrete cases.
All that the court is expected to see in dealing with equal protection claims is whether the law impugned is palpably discriminatory and in considering such a question great weight ought to be at tached to the fact that a majority of the elected represen tatives of the people who made the law did not think so though that is not of course conclusive.
As pointed out by Chakravartti J 1  2 321 US I 305 The notification by which the case of Anwar Ali Sirkar the respondent herein was directed to be tried by the special court did not relate merely to that case but covered five more cases in each of which the accused were several in number.
FAZL ALl J.
3 Article 14 is as widely worded as if not more widely worded than its counterpart in the American Consti tution and is bound to lead to some inconvenient results and seriously affect some pre Constitution laws.
Democracy im plies respect for the elementary rights of man however suspect or unworthy.
Amongst other important changes reference may be made to the provision of section 13 of the Act which empowers the Special Court to convict an accused of any offence if the commission of such offence is proved during trial although he was not charged with the same or could be charged with it in the manner contemplated by section 236 of the Criminal Procedure Code nor was it a minor offence within the meaning of section 238 of the Code.
Under section a50 of the Criminal Procedure Code when a case after being heard in part goes for disposal before another Magistrate the accused has the right to demand before the second Magistrate commences the proceedings that the witnesses already examined should be re examined and re heard.
A line is drawn artificially between two classes of cases.
The position therefore is that when the statute is not itself discrimi natory and the charge of violation of equal protection is only against the official who is entrusted with the duty of carrying it into operation the equal protection clause could be availed of in such cases but the officer would have a good defence if he could prove bona fides.
 It has not however been urged before us that the addition of these extra words has made any substantial difference in its practical application.
In order to pass the test two conditions must be fulfilled namely 1 that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes those that are grouped together from others 1  2  335 and 2 that that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act.
The different sec tions of the Act have been analysed and the important dif ferences have been clearly indicated by the learned Chief Justice of West Bengal and need not be repeated in detail.
Section 5 1 of the Act runs as follows  A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as the State Government may by general or special order in writing direct.
I agree in the conclusion reached by my learned brothers that the appeals should be dismissed and I propose to indicate my views as shortly as possible on a few only of the points raised and discussed.
Almost every piece of legislation has got a public purpose in view and is generally intended or said to be intended to promote the general progress of the country and the better administration of Government  The intention behind the legislation may be unexceptionable and the object sought to be achieved may be praiseworthy but the question which falls to be considered under article 14 is whether the legislation is discriminatory in its nature and this has to be determined not so much by its purpose or objects but by its effects.
Distinctions have to be made for different classes and groups of persons and a rational or reasonable classification is permitted as otherwise it would be almost impossible to carry on the work of Govern ment of any State or country.
But I am not here to consider that.
The law of the Constitution is not only for those who govern or for the theorist but also for the bulk of the people for the common man for whose benefit and pride and safeguard the Constitution has also been written.
It matters not how lofty and laudable the motives are.
