A non journalist newspaper employee means any person employed to do any work in or in relation to any newspaper establishment but does not include any such person who is a working journalist or is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature as stated in section 2dd of the Act.
That Tribunal has to consist of a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court.
Similarly section 13DD of the Act empowers the Central Government to constitute a Tribunal where it is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 13C of the Act has not been able to function effectively.
Section 13AA and section 13DD of the Act came into force with effect from January 31 1979.
In exercise of its powers under section 12 of the Act the Central Government accepted a part of the recommendations and made an order thereon on 26121980 and accepted the remaining part of the recommendations and made another order thereon on 2071981.
Initially the State of Maharashtra the Commissioner of Labour and the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur had been impleaded as respondents.
Thereafter during the pendency of the Writ Petition the Indian Federation of Working Journalists and the All India Reporter Karamachari Sangh were impleaded as respondents in the writ petition.
It was urged before the High Court on behalf of the Ist respondent All India Reporter Limited that the law reports publised by it were not newspapers as defined in the Act and therefore the order made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Palekar were not applicable to its establishment.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court the appellants have filed this appeal by special leave.
But we are concerned in this case with the narrow question whether the six law reports which are being published by the Ist respondent are newspapers within the meaning of the Act and whether the employees engaged in their production or distribution are entitled to the benefit of the orders made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of the Palekar Tribunal.
In order to be a newspaper a work must be a i printed work ii a periodical and iii should contain public news or comments on public news.
There is no dispute in the present case that the law reports are printed works and that they are periodicals.
The only question which remains to be 782 considered is whether they contain public news or comments on public news.
Entry 39 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution reads thus Newspapers books and printing presses.
 Newspapers and books are no doubt shown as separate items but the distinction between them sometimes becomes very thin or totally vanishes.
It reads thus The newspaper and periodical Press of Great Britain consists of over 4000 publications ranging from newspapers famous throughout the world to the journals of obscure societies.
Its limits are ill defined for there is no definition of either newspaper  or periodical  which enables each to be infallibly distinguished from the other and from publications which are properly speaking neither.
The term newspaper  is usually applied except so far as concerns the important class of trade newspapers to publications devoted mainly to recording current events and periodicals  to magazines reviews and journals which in so far as they are concerned with current events at all are concerned to comment rather than to report but newspapers merge into advertising sheets periodicals into books and pamphlets and both into one another   The expression news is not defined in the Act.
Several definitions of the expression news collected from the different dictionaries and digests have been cited before us.
The law reports which are being published by the Ist respondent are reports of recent decisions of the Supreme Court of India and of the High Courts in India which are supplied to it by its agents appointed at New Delhi and other places where High Courts are situated.
The decisions of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts are almost as important as statutes rules and regulations passed by the competent legislatures and other bodies since they affect the public generally.
At any rate lawyers and others connected with courts and judicial proceedings who constitute a substantial section of the public are interested in knowing the contents and the effect of the decisions.
The Ist respondent All India Reporter Limited and other publishers of law reports in the interests of their own business vie with each other to publish the judgments of the Supreme Court or of the High Courts as early as possible in their law reports which are published periodically either weekly fortnightly or monthly.
It is by reading these law reports they come to know of the latest legal position prevailing in the country on any question decided in the decisions reported in the said reports.
We find it also difficult to agree with the submission made on behalf of the Ist respondent that since the law reports are going to be preserved by the lawyers as reference books after getting them rebound subsequently they should be treated as books.
Tax on the sale or purchase of newspapers and on advertisements published therein.
the High Court of Orissa held that the Cuttack Law Times was not a newspaper because according to it the necessary pre requisite of a periodical in order to make it a newspaper was that it should contain mainly publicnews or comments on public news and that books containing authoritative reports for future reference could by no means be said to contain news so as to become newspaper.
Therefore I am clearly of the opinion that the expression public news  is of sufficiently wide amplitude to cover the publications of both the petitioners in question.
The Ist respondent cannot derive any assistance from the deci 786 sion of the High Court of Bombay in Commissoner of Sales Tax vs Ms Express Printing Press AIR 1983 Bombay 191 in which the Bombay High Court held that the two publications by name Jocker  and Jabara  which contained predictions or forecasts of lucky numbers were not newspapers since those publications had nothing to do with any recent event which had taken place.
In the Annual Report of the Registrar of Newspapers for India 1957 there is an interesting discussion of certain specific cases in which the question whether the publications involved were newspapers or not.
In the course of the said report it is obversed thus In this connection the Press Registrar scrutinised reports published in certain foreign countries regarding their own Press and it was noticed that in the catalogues prepared by them specialised newspapers such as the one under consideration were not excluded from the list of newspapers.
In a catalogue of Russian papers for 1958 all the above categories of newspapers and periodicals have been included in addition to many others which deal exclusively with party affairs.
 It is significant that the expression newspaper  as defined in the Act includes not merely public news  but also comments on public news .
 speeches made at conferences in which the legal fraternity is interested etc.
Though the 787 publication of these items by itself may not occupy a substantial part of a law report to make it a newspaper the publication of the recent judgments itself is sufficient to make a law report a newspaper which may after some time cease to be a newspaper and become a book of reference.
SL Appeal allowed.
