Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
The learned Judge held that at the time when the appeal of the defendant was disposed of by the Subordinate Judge the rights of the parties were governed by the Thika Tenancy Act of 1949 and the definition of a thika tenant in that Act was not such as to afford any protection to the appellant.
Section 29 ran as follows The provisions of this Act shall apply to all suits and proceedings including proceedings  in execution for ejectment of a thika tenant which are pending at the date of commencement of this Act and if any such suit or proceeding relates to any matter in respect of which the Controller is competent after the date of such commendment to pass orders under this Act such suit or proceeding shall be transferred to the Controller who shall on suit transfer deal with it in accordance with the provisions of this Act as if this Act had been in operation on the date of institution of the suit or proceeding Provided that in applying the provisions of the Act to any suit or proceeding instituted for the ejectment of a thika tenant so transferred the provisions regarding notice in section 4 of this Act shall not apply.
If the matter was in appeal the appellate court had to exercise jurisdiction under this sub section determine whether the tenant was a thika tenant and send the matter to the controller if it was found that the tenant was entitled to the benefit of the Act .
According to Craies on Statute Law Sixth Edition at p 391 If it is a necessary implication from the language employed that the legislature intended a particular section to have a retrospective operation the courts will give it such an operation.
According to Halsbury s Laws of England third edition Vol 36 page 413 article 627 Unless it is clearly and unambiguously intended to do so a statute should not be construed so as to interfere with or prejudice established private rights under contracts or the title to property or so as to deprive a man of his property without his having an opportunity of being heard.
The provisions of the Act of 1949 as finally amended by the Act of 1953 have to be examined to show how far they disturb the rights of landlord to recover possession of the property from a person who would be a thika tenant on 28th February 1949.
The legislature clearly meant section 4 to be prospective because according to its language the landlord who wishes to eject the thika tenant 1 2 39 Times Law Reporter 31 181 must give at least one month s notice in writing or three months  notice as the case may be.
Before the Act had come into force the landlord could not possibly know that his suit would be liable to be defeated unless he applied to the controller because there was no such authority functioning then.
Section 28 was meant to give relief to a thika tenant in a case where a decree or order for recovery of possession of any holding from a thika tenant had been made before the date of commencement of the Act.
The controller in his turn had to deal with the matter in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 1949 as if it had been in operation on the date of the institution of the suit or proceeding which might be before the commencement of the Act but he was to deal with all pre Act suits on the basis that no notice under section 4 was necessary.
If the legislature did not want to impose the bar of section 4 to pre Act suits in 1949 it does not stand to reason that the legislature should seek to impose it in the year 1953 to be operative in all suits pending not on February 28 1949 but on 21st October 1952.
The effect of omission of section 28 has been considered by this Court in Mahadeolal Kanodia vs Administrator General of West Bengal1 where it was held that a thika tenant against whom proceedings for execution of the decree for eviction were pending and who had applied for relief under section 28 lost the protection of that section as a result of the Amending Act of 1953.
There being no provision for transfer of the proceedings of the suit to the controller the court had to apply the Act as it found applicable to the facts of the case.
Whereas before the enactment of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 it was not necessary for the landlord either to allege any of the grounds specified in section 3 or to prove the existence thereof at the hearing of the suit he had to establish the existence of such a ground when the suit was heard.
For reasons we cannot speculate upon the legislature limited the applicability of the Act only to suits and appeals pending on 21st October 1952 and not in February 1949 ie the date of the commencement of the Act of 1949.
Bhargava J I agree with the judgment of my brother Mitter J with the exception that I would like to reserve my opinion on the question whether section 4 of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended up to 1953 is prospective or not.
