Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated  March 6 1967 of the Orissa High Court in OJC Nos.
In view of article 229 of the Constitution.
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
As mentioned earlier member sales tax tribunal was an ex cadre post.
It is not the case of the parties that he was placed at the disposal of the government for any definite period.
Hence that part of the High Court s order is unassailable.
As seen earlier the cadre of the superior judicial service senior branch consisted of not only the posts of district and sessions judges and addl.
But we were told that in view of the decisions of this Court in State of West Bengal vs Nripendra Nath Bagchi1 and State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad2 the High Court must be held to have that right as those posts are included in the cadre of superior judicial service.
In Ranga Mahammad s case2 the point that arose for decision was as to who was the authority to transfer a district judge.
The rule laid down in that decision is of no assistance in determining the question as to whether the High Court has power to fill up some of the posts in the secretariat.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues with personal information deal with the matter than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
In that cadre no officer holding any post under the government was included.
If there is no such agreement it is open to the government to send him back to his parent department at any time it pleases.
If only there is mutual understanding and appreciation of the difficulties of the one by the other there will be harmony.
But it was beyond the powers of the High Court to post Shri KB Panda as the law secretary Shri T Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri PK Mohanti as the deputy law secretary.
