Tata Consultant Engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited.
The dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
The appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
House rent allowance was also paid.
975 EB 40 1175.
Asstt 35 1020 EB 40 1300 1265 EB 45 1490.
Asstt Canteen Asstt.
70 1690 80 2010.
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
I do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
The challenge embodied in the second contention against the amendment of the award is more serious.
 The jurisdiction given to the Tribunal by rule 31 is closely circumscribed.
It is only a clerical mistake or error which can be corrected and the clerical mistake or error must arise from an accidental slip or omission in the award.
Considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
It is wrong in principle it is said to provide a fixed dearness allowance.
In the said award Your Honour has observed at the end of Para 22 In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance .
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
I do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
The endorsement made on the application by the Advocate for the company does not indicate that the company had any objection to the award being corrected as sought by the employees union.
Implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
At the end of paragraph 15 of the Award the Tribunal stated But there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
For some years to come this is likely to be one of the few Consulting Engineers who will be securing major contracts.
ii Employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st January 1976 2 increments.
iii All other employees with more than one year s service shall be given one increment.
The application before the Tribunal was filed under Rule 31 of the Bombay Industrial Disputes Rules 1957 which is as follows A Board Court Labour Court Tribunal or Arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
