1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India hereinafter referred to as the Corporation  which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months  notice or salary in lieu thereof.
As mentioned earlier there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27000 whole time employees working in them.
 The above regulation fixed the age of retirement of an employee at 55 years while empowering the authority to extend the service of an employee at its discretion every year upto 60 years of age.
Clause 6 of that order originally read as follows 6.
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
An employee belonging to Class III or Class IV and a transferred employee belonging to Class I or Class II shall retire on completion of age 60 but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
All the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV irrespective of the fact whether they were transferred employees or employees appointed after 1st September 1956 were entitled to continue in service till 60 years of age but the employees belonging to Class I and Class II who were appointed to the service of the Corpora tion on or after 1st September 1956 had to retire on the completion of 58 years of age subject to the usual clause relating to premature retirement.
From the said Class III post he was promoted to the Class I post since there was no necessity to pass through a Class II post before entering a Class I post on 8101963 and was appointed as Assistant Branch Manager Admn.
Hence he was not retired on the 30th June 1984 as originally notified and allowed to continue in service.
The observation made by Pathak J in the course of his judgment that there is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section 2 in respect of transferred employeesbeing struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees is signifi cant.
Their complaint was that the Rules created without any valid justification two cadres the State cadre and the provincialised cadre the former including not only the Government School teachers but also those recruited after October 1 1957 and posted in the provincialised schools that by reason of having two cadres and providing for both a uniform 15 per cent for selection grade posts coupled with making the provincialised cadre a diminishing one the result had been that teachers deemed to have been appointed to the State cadre with effect from October 1 1957 and even those recruited thereafter had been promoted to the selec tion grade while those in the provincialised cadre though senior in service and performed identical duties and had identical scales of pay remained in the ordinary grade.
Having regard to the lower emoluments and other benefits which the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV are entitled to get from the Corporation and the higher emoluments and other benefits to which officers belonging to Class I and Class II are entitled and also the nature of their work and the powers enjoyed by them we are of the view that fixation of different ages of retirement to the different classes of employees would not by itself be violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
This Court held that when once the direct recruits and promoters were absorbed in one cadre they formed one class and they could not be distinguished again for the purpose of further promotion to the higher grade C  The Court further ob served that before the impugned notification was issued there was only one rule of promotion applicable to both direct recruits and promoters but by the impugned notifica tion discriminatory treatment was made in favour of the apprentice train examiners who had already been absorbed in grade D .
The High Court has negatived it.
In Govindarajulu vs The Management of Union Bank of India  Ors Writ Petition No 5486 of 1980 the High Court of Madras rejected the said claim by its judgment dated 2111.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
On the absorption of the services of the servants of the previous railway companies it became necessary for the Indian Railway Administration to frame rules with regard to their conditions of service including the determination of the age of retirement of those railway employees.
Clause b however provided that every ministerial railway serv ant who had entered the Government service on or before 31st March 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned either in sub clause i or sub clause ii thereof was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years.
As may be seen from that rule the classification of the employees was made on the basis of the date of entry into the service of the Government.
It may be so.
