the order of the court was as follows.
in these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine engineering pharmacy nursing etc in educational institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this court in j p unni krishnan v state of a p 1993.
1 scc 645 1993 indlaw sc 1056.
i as well as the applicability of the rules and orders made by several state governments on the basis of the said decision.
by order dated october 71993 passed by the constitution bench three questions were referred for consideration by a larger bench.
in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted.
the claim of being a minority whether based on religion or language and the claim of being a minority educational institution put forward by the petitioners can not be pronounced upon without first ascertaining what the said expressions connote and signify.
since the process of selection of candidates for admission for the next academic session is to commence soon it is necessary to pass an interim order governing admission to the professional courses in minority educational institutions for the next academic session.
for admission in the last academic session 1993 94an interim order in the following terms was made by a bench comprising honourable the chief justice and one of us justice b p jeevan reddy on may 141993 in writ petition nos 350 and 355 of 1993.
we have heard shri soli j sorabjee learned senior counsel for the petitioners in these two writ petitions.
there will be an interim order in the following terms i fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test.
the candidates so selected and admitted shall pay scales of fee as applicable to this class of students as determined by the state government from time to time.
the remaining fifty per cent of the intake may be regulated by the petitioners to admit candidates belonging to the particular religious or linguistic minority.
however the selection shall be made strictly on the basis of merit among the candidates seeking admission to the institutions.
such merit shall be determined oh the basis of the academic performance at the qualifying examination or on the basis of any objective test that the institution might itself apply to determine such relative and competing merits or on the basis of performance of the results of the selection tests that the state government may itself hold for selecting candidates for admission to technical colleges in the state.
candidates so selected on the basis of merit amongst the minorities shall however abide by such condition in the matter of payment of tuition and other fee as may be permitted by the state government.
it is made clear that this order is made on the assumption that the petitioners are minority institutions.
thereafter the matter was considered by the constitution bench in its order dated august 1819932 in that order the writ petitions placed before the bench were categorised into five categories namely1 unaided minority educational institutions2.
minority educational institutions which are in receipt of state funds by way of aid3 minority educational institutions in respect of which it is not clear from the averments in the writ petitions whether they are aided or unaided institutions4.
writ petitions challenging the correctness and applicability of unni krishnan filed by educational institutions which do not claim to be minority educational institutions5 writ petitions which do not fall in any of the above categories.
it was directed that the order dated may 141993would not apply to educational institutions falling in categories 4 and 5 and the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 181993 the order dated may 141993was made applicable to the institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 with the modification that following were added in continuation of the said order in continuation it is made further clear that whether any of the petitioner institutions is a mei or not is a matter for the government to verify and determine.
this order shall be shahal h musaliar v state of kerala1993 4 scc.
the nris if any admitted to an extent not exceeding 5 of the total seats shall be out of the payment seats to be filled under after completing the admissions each of the colleges shall submit to the competent authority to the university to which it is affiliated and to the government concerned statements containing full particulars of the students admitted under cl ii of para 2 of this order.
separate directions were however given in respect of institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 and 482 of 1993 with regard to writ petition no 284 of 1993 it was observed that in the said writ petition the petitioner has claimed that no capitation fee is charged from any student and the fee charged is not more than in some cases less than.
the fees charged in the government colleges and that the admission to these institutions is made on the basis of an all india common entrance test separately conducted by the petitioner and admissions are made on the basis of merit as determined in the said test and further that in view of the reputation of these institutions thousands of students apply for and appear in the entrance test every year.
similarly as regards writ petition no 482 of 1993it was observed that according to the petitioner in that case the medical college run by it at vellore in the state of tamil nadu is a well reputed institution admission to which is made on the basis of all india entrance test conducted by the petitioner and that the admissions are made on the basis of merit and the fee charged by it is not more than the fees chargeable in similar governmental institutions and that there has never been any complaint about the working of this institution and it was observed that this fact was not disputed by shri seetharaman learned counsel for the state of tamil nadu.
in the above two writ petitions to admit students to their colleges on the basis of entrance test conducted by them and on the same basis on which admissions were made by them in the said colleges in the previous academic year.
this information should be furnished to the competent authority to the university to which the said colleges are affiliated and to the secretary education department government of karnataka tamil nadu.
dealing with writ petition no 598 of 1993the court after noticing that an agreement was entered into between the institution and the government of kerala according to which while 85 of the seats were to be filled by the government and the remaining 15 of the seats were left for the management to fill up in its discretion observed that since the basic principle in unni krishnan as well as the order dated august 181993 is that merit shall be the guiding principle in the matter of admission a plea for discretionary quota could not be countenanced and it was directed that the said writ petition shall also be governed by the order dated may 141993as modified by addition.
4scc276 2002.
in the aforesaid order dated october 719933with reference to the minority educational institutions in the state of kerala such as those covered by writ petition no 598 of 1993 it has been observed the system obtaining in kerala appears to be altogether different which was unfortunately not brought to our notice on august 181993 there are only two private engineering colleges in the state said to be minority educational institutions.
we have heard learned counsel for the parties and we are of the view that except for the minority educational institutions in kerala which are governed by the terms of the agreements with the government of kerala the directions given by this court with regard to admissions for the academic session 1993 can continue and govern admissions for the next academic session commencing in 1994 as regards the institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by the terms of agreements with the government of kerala the admissions to such institutions would be made in accordance with those agreements.
in the institutions referred to in writ petition no 598 of 1993 and similar minority educational institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by an agreement with the government of kerala the admissions shall be made in accordance with the terms of those agreements.
we make it clear that regarding the character of these institutions whether they are minority educational institutions we express no opinion.
that is a matter between the institutions and the government of kerala.
but it would be open for the management of the institution to adjudge the merit of the candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
their continuous length of ad hoc service from the date of their initial appointment can not be counted towards seniority.
the direct recruits were appointed in accordance with rule 5a read with appendix a of u p forest service rules1952 for short the rules.
the seniority of the promotee asstt.
conservators forest shall be counted from the respective dates of appointment to the substantive posts in their quota under rule 6 of the rules.
conservators forest.
in the light of the respective contentions the question arises whether the determination of the seniority is in accordance with the directions issued by this court.
we have to consider therefore whether the procedure adopted by the sate to determine the inter se seniority is in accordance with the rules and the law laid down in k c joshi case.
there is no rota prescribed in the rules.
if the temporary posts are likely to continue for long normally as per the law laid down by this court they be treated for the purpose of counting seniority as permanent posts unless they are likely to be abolished.
it is a policy matter.
