twelve accused persons were tried for offences under section 302307149324147148 and section 3 of terrorist and disruptive activites.
prevention act1987 hereinafter referred to as tada by the learned designated judge pune.
out of the said twelve accused6 accused were acquitted of all the charges while the five appellants herein namely bonkya alias bharat shivaji mane a 5mandu baliba dombe a 8ashok baloba dombe a 9ranjar bhausaheb dombe a 10 and kaka alias pandurang baloba dombe a 11 were convicted for offences under section 302307149 ipc and section 3 of tada and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment and to pay a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 302149 ipc.
10 years ri and a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 307149 ipc 2 years ri for the offence under section 324149 ipc and life imprisonment and fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 3 of tada in default of payment of fine on each of the counts the appellants were to undergo further ri for two years each.
the substantive sentences of imprisonment were however directed to run concurrently.
one accused died during the pendency of the trial.
through this appeal under section 19 of tada the appellants have called in question their conviction and sentence.
the accused a 6a 10 and a 11 alongwith one other person were also present at the video parlour.
there was an altercation between the accused and the complainant party when the leg of kaka dombe a 11 dashed against the leg of anna shety band patte.
pw both the prosecution witnesses as well as.
the accused party left the video parlour threatening each other.
the complainant party went towards jagdamba hotel owned by waman band patte pw at that time baban karpe bajrang band patte sanjay mane ramesh pawar were also present near the hotel.
at about 4 00 p m the appellants and other accused persons allegedly armed with swords satturs and sticks arrived there in two auto rickshaws and one jeep.
appellants a 5a 10 and a 11 thereafter assaulted bajrang band patte pw 14 on his head in front of the hotel.
on the basis of the said report an fir for offences under section 302307149147148 ipc was registered vide cr no 101 of 1990 at about 6 00 p m the inquest on the dead body of popat was conducted and the body was sent for post mortem examination.
bajrang pw 14 regained consciousness during the night intervening 11th and 12th august1990 and made a statement to the police in respect of the incident which took place in front of jagdamba hotel and on the basis of that statement cr no 10290 was registered.
a 10 also made a disclosure statement under section 27 of the evidence act to the effect that he had buried a sword behind yamai tukai temple and could get it recovered.
during the investigation an identification parade was got conducted through the executive magistrate pw 32 when baban karpe pw 9 and other prosecution witnesses identified the assailants.
after completion of the investigation two charge sheets arising out of crime no 10190 and crime no 10290 were filed before the designated court.
p 35requested the court for holding trial in respect of both the chargesheets together which application was allowed by the designated court vide order dated 5 december 1992 and that is how both the cases were tried together by virtue of the provisions of section 220 1 cr.
at the trial the prosecution alleged that the accused party with an intent to commit terror in the wadar community had committed the murder of popat and injured pw 9 and pw 14by using lethal weapons and had thereby committed terror in the wadar community and thus committed an offence under section 3 of tada besides the other offences as already noticed.
the defence plea of total denial and false implication has been rightly rejected by the designated court in view of the over whelming cogent and reliable prosecution evidence.
the trial court for the purposes of consideration of the evidence divided the prosecution case into three parts namely i the incident at vrindavan video parlour ii incident near jagdamba hotel and iii the incident at the math.
public prosecutor.
out of the remaining witnesses mentioned above pw 9 and pw 14 are the injured witnesses.
from our independent analytical appreciation of the evidence on the record we are of the opinion that the designated court rightly found the participation of a 1a 5a 8a 9 and a 11in the assault to have been positively established.
baban karpe pw 9himself an injured witness failed to identify a 10 at the time of the identification parade held by pw 32though he identified a 10 later on in the court during the trial.
in view of the improvement made by the prosecution witnesses at the trial from their earlier statements and the infirmities already noticed we are of the opinion that it can not be said with any amount of certainty that the participation of a 10 in the assault or even his presence in the unlawful assembly at the time of the assault near jagdamba hotel or the math has been substantiated.
the designated court after considering the evidence of the first incident and the manner of assault on the deceased and pw 9 and pw 14came to the conclusion that the appellants alongwith some others had intended to create terror in a section of the people wadar community and with that intention had assaulted pw 14the deceased and pw9 by lethal weapons and were therefore guilty of committing an offence under section 3 tada.
prosecution has led no evidence nor brought any circumstances on the record from which any inference may be drawn that the appellants intended to strike terror amongst the wadar community.
in hitendra vishnu thakur and others vs.
emphasis supplied.
under section 12 of tada the designated court has the jurisdiction not only to try the cases under tada but also to try offences under the indian penal code if the offence under tada is connected with such other offences.
