these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
background facts.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
they having come to learn that certain vacancies exist in the respondent authority applied therefor although no advertisement in that behalf was issued.
the respondent authority appointed the appellants and posted them to an overseas project known as indore habitat project which was implemented through the agency of overseas development authority hereinafter referred to as the oda on daily wages.
rs 63 per day for the degree holders and rs 52 50 per day for the diploma holders.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
they were also being granted the benefit of leave.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
the said dispute was referred for adjudication of the labour court indore by the state of madhya pradesh on the following questions.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
if no then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
the parties filed their respective pleadings before the labour court and also adduced their respective evidences.
the labour court on the basis of the materials produced before it arrived at the following findings 1.
the appellants were appointed by the indore development authority.
their work was satisfactory.
work has been taken by the respondent from all the appellants except four.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
the salary fixed by the commissioner was earlier given to all engineers and later on they were given the salary fixed by the collector.
there is no difference in their work and the work of the employees of indore development authority.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
dr rajiv dhawan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 and mr m n rao learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 335 of 2002 took us through materials on records and contended that the appellants herein became permanent employees of the respondents having regard to the provisions contained in section 2 of the 1961 act and order 2i and 2vi of the standard standing orders as set out in the annexure appended to the 1963 rules defining permanent employees and the temporary employees.
placing reliance on several documents which have come into existence at a subsequent stage dr dhawan would contend that vacancies in fact had arisen after passing of the judgment of the high court and thus the services of the appellants should be regularized there against.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
the learned counsel would submit that the sufficient materials were brought on records to show that vacancies were available and as the appellants worked for a period of more than six months they became permanent employees in terms of the act.
it was further contended that as the respondents despite direction to produce documents including the offers for appointment did not produce the same an adverse inference should have been drawn against them by the high court.
mr v r reddy learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would contend that indisputably the appellants were engaged by the respondent authority but such appointments were made for the purpose of the project financed by oda.
statutory.
classification of employees.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
probationers iv badlies v apprentices and vi temporary.
the respondent authority is a state within the meaning of article.
12 of the constitution of india.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
it is also not in dispute that the state government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the adhiniyam has made rules known as m p development authority services officers and servants recruitment rules 1987.
the posts of sub engineers in which the appellants were appointed.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
the appointments of the appellants were therefore void ab initio being opposed to public policy as also violative of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
all actions of the state must conform to the constitutional requirements.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
jt 2004 6 sc 110 2004 indlaw sc 606 a three judge bench of this court of which we were members upon taking into consideration a large number of decisions held although we do not intend to express any opinion as to whether the cooperative society is a state within the meaning of article but it is beyond any cavil of doubt that the writ petition will be maintainable when the action of the cooperative society is violative of mandatory statutory provisions.
it was therefore impermissible for the state to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
vs state of jammu kshmir ors.
jt 2004 8 sc 531 2004 indlaw sc 729 a division bench of this court opined no person illegally appointed or appointed without following the procedure prescribed under the law is entitled to claim that he should be continued in service.
vs union of india and others 1987 supp.
the 1961 act was enacted to provide for rules defining with sufficient precision in certain matters the conditions of employment of employees in undertakings in the state of madhya pradesh.
by reason of the provisions of the said act application of standard standing orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the standard standing orders have been specified.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
the terms of conditions of service contained in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules are not in derogation of the provisions contained in schedule appended to the 1961 act.
the 1973 act as noticed hereinbefore clearly mandates that all posts should be sanctioned by the state government and all appointments to the said cadre must be made by the state government alone.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
the matter relating to recruitment is governed by the 1973 act and the 1987 rules.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
we have noticed the provisions of the act and the rules.
no case was made out by the appellants herein in their statements of claim that they became permanent employees in terms thereof.
the labour court in absence of any pleadings or any proof as regard application of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had proceeded on the basis that they would become permanent employees in terms of order 2ii and 2vi of the annexure appended thereto.
the nature of their employment continues save and except a case where a statute interdicts which in turn would be subject to the constitutional limitations.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court s view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
it was within its jurisdiction to do so particularly having regard to the nature of the evidence adduced by the respondent.
they were not appointed in terms of the provisions of the statute.
they were not therefore entitled to take the recourse of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work as adumbrated in articles 14 and 39d of the constitution of india.
see orissa university of agriculture technology and another vs manoj k mohanty 2003 5 scc 188 2003 indlaw sc 348.
