aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
under show cause notices it was alleged that the appellants herein assessee have sold the biscuits under the brand name meghrajwhich was a registered trade mark of kay aar biscuits p ltd who was using the said trade mark on manufacture of biscuits themselves and therefore the appellants were not eligible to the benefit of ssi notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 1993 as amended by notification no 5994 ce dated 1 3 1994.
the above show cause notices were issued by the department demanding differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992 the said demand was based on an agreement detected by the department.
under the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was.
it was declared that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
the assistant commissioner ghaziabad examined the printed wrappers.
he came to the conclusion vide his orders that the trade name meghraj was in the form of a logo printed on the wrapper of the biscuits and therefore the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 as amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 consequently the adjudicating authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992.
aggrieved by the decision of the adjudicating authority the assessee preferred appeals to the commissioner a the said appeals were rejected on the ground that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj of another manufacturer m s kay aar biscuits p ltd on their products biscuits and therefore they were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
in this connection reliance was placed by the commissioner a on the said agreement dated 22 11 89 before the commissioner a the appellants herein contended that they had used the name m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd on the wrapper and not on the product.
this argument was rejected by the commissioner a saying that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj on their products.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
that the same was registered ssi unit that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was lying closed since 1 3 93 and therefore the appellants have been using that logo of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd who was eligible for exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
accordingly the commissioner a dismissed the appeals.
meghraj.
one more fact needs to be mentioned that on 30 6 2000 the registrar of trade marks appears to have issued registration certificate on 30 6 2000 registering the trade mark meghraj in favour of the appellants with effect form 30 9 91 it appears that issuance of this certificate was mentioned before the cegat which rejected the rectification application on 8 12 2000.
the object of the notification therefore was to help the ssi units and thereby increased industrial production.
explanation ix brand name or trade name shall mean a brand name or trade name whether registered or not that is to say a name or a mark such as symbol monogram label signature or invented word or writing which is used in relation to such specified goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between such specified goods and some person using such name or mark with or without any indication of the identity of that person.
this aspect is important since one of the arguments advanced by the appellants herein before the commissioner a was that the trade mark belonged to m s ltd which was registered ssi unit lying closed since 1 3 1993.
on behalf of the appellants it has been vehemently argued that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was never the registered owner of the trade mark meghraj.
this court has held that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
in the present case there is no evidence from the side of the appellants indicating abandonment of the trade mark by m s although madan verma the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd has filed his affidavit enclosing the registration certificate he has nowhere stated that m s ltd has abandoned the trade mark.
abandonment of the trade mark has to be proved by the appellants in the present case.
u s 28 of the trade marks act1999registration gives to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the trade marks act.
it is correct to say that the registrar trade marks can issue registration certificate u s 28 of the trade marks act with retrospective effect.
this question has been decided by the bombay high court in the case of sunder parmanand lalwani and others v caltex india ltd air 1969 bombay 24 1965 indlaw mum 1419 in which it has been held vide paras 32 and 38 as follows a proprietary right in a mark can be obtained in a number of ways.
our trade marks law is based on the english trade marks law and the english acts.
the first trade marks act in england was passed in 1875 even prior thereto it was firmly established in england that a trader acquired a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade and that he was entitled to protect such right of property by appropriate proceedings by way of injunction in a court of law.
the effect of the relevant provision of the english acts was that registration of a trade mark would be deemed to be equivalent to public user of such mark.
in india the mark caltex was a totally new mark for watches and allied goods.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
it is confined to the provisions of the trade marks act.
registration itself does not create a trade mark.
appeals dismissed.
