leave granted in slp crl.
these appeals are preferred by four accused against the common judgment of the high court of chhattisgarh at bilaspur confirming the judgment of the additional sessions judge bemetara district durg convicting the appellants u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the indian penal code hereinafter referred to as ipc and sentencing each of them to undergo imprisonment for life with a fine of rs 1000 and in default to undergo additional rigorous imprisonment for three months.
the appellant raju.
devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.
chandra prakash accused no 2 has filed criminal appeal no 589 of 2014 the appellant smt.
shashi tripathi accused no 1 has filed criminal appeal arising out of special leave petition criminal no 3737 of 2014.
he deposed in court that on 25 11 2003when he returned home he found servant anil kumar pw 21 was weeping.
bhavna was dead.
there were numerous injuries including incised wounds on bhavna none on shashi.
after registration of the crime inquest was conducted over the dead body of bhavna on 26 11 2003 post mortem was conducted by dr naresh tiwari and dr m deodhar who gave their report which is marked as exhibit p18 spot map was prepared by the inquiry officer io bloodstained cloth of accused shashi tripathi was taken into possession along with broken bangles bloodstained cement mortar and plain cement mortar were also taken into possession.
shashi tripathi mahesh and binu.
chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003 a bloodstained knife was taken into possession.
devendra choubey was taken into custody on 22 12 2003 and a suzuki motorcycle was also taken into possession.
a test identification was conducted by the executive magistrate in the sub jail bemetara on 13 12 2003 a similar identification parade of raju.
a sealed packet containing hair found in the grip of the deceased and another sealed packet containing bloodstained cloth of the deceased were taken into possession vide exhibit p35.
after committal the trial court framed charges u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the ipc the prosecution examined 32 witnesses.
no defence witness was examined after the statements of the accused were recorded u s 313 of the criminal procedure code1973.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
bhavna was married to her step son jitendra kumar in july2003 shashi tripathi used to be annoyed with bhavna tripathi on account of some domestic dispute.
she engaged the other accused for murdering bhavna.
bhavna was murdered on 25 11 2003 at about 1830 hours in the house where she resided with shashi tripathi.
dr m deodhar who conducted the postmortem opined that cause of her death was neurogenic and hemorrhagic shock.
the injuries found on person of the deceased were as follows external injuries 1 incised wound on left scapular region of size 3 cm x 1 cm 2 incised wound on left scapular region of size 4 cm x 1  cm.
x 1  cm 3.
one incised wound on left auxiliary region on the posterior auxiliary region of size 3 cm x 2 cm x 3 cm.
4 incised wound on lower costal region left of size.
3  cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3  cm.
x 3 cm with punctured wound 6 incised wound over right costal region of size 3 cm x 2 cm x 1 cm.
7 incised wound on right supra mammary region near middle of size 4 cm x 1 cm x 1  cm 8 incised wound on right supra mammary region lateral aspect of size 3 cm x 1  cm x 1  cm 9 incised wound on radial aspect of left forearm near wrist joint of size 2.
cm x cm x  cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
x 1 cm 13 incised wound on ulna region of left hand on lower 13rd region of size 1 cm.
internal injuries brain membrane pale lungs trachea pale punctured wound on right and left lungs of size 2 cm x 1 cm2  cm and 1 cm.
x 3 cm lobe was cut and there was 3 cm punctured wound.
incised wound was also present on the right lobe of size 3 cm x 13 cm x 3 cm.
liver kidney and spleen were pale.
the sole eyewitness was a boy of 13 years of age anil kumar pw 21who worked as a servant with the family.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
we have carefully examined the manner in which the identification parade was conducted and the manner in which the boy anil kumar pw 21 identified the accused in court and we have no reason to doubt the identification of the accused which assumes importance in this case since the boy did not know the accused before the incident.
he deposed before the court that shashi didi accused brought him to village jevra from bilaspur.
the incident occurred in the courtyard and shashi didi was present in the passage.
the prosecution has found it difficult to pinpoint the motive but shashi tripathi s husband dr sharda prasad tripathi pw 1 deposed before the court that she tried to create a hindrance in the marriage of his son jitendra since she wanted her daughter abhilasha to marry him however he went ahead with the marriage of jitendra to bhavna whereupon shashi tripathi remained silent.
the credibility of the evidence of anil kumar pw 21 was attacked by the learned counsel for the appellants who submitted that the boy is a tutored witness who has been influenced by the police with whom he spent a lot of time.
in fact he even came to the court in the company of a police constable after being served summons at allahabad.
the learned counsel for the appellants forcefully attacked the conviction of the other accused viz mahesh chandra prakash and devendra kumar who admittedly were not known to the child witness anil kumar.
it was submitted that the test identification parade were delayed and the identification of these accused by the witness in court was not reliable.
mahesh and chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003their identification parade was conducted on 13 12 2003 within a fortnight or so.
the accused devendra kumar was arrested on 22 12 2003 and his identification parade was conducted on 26 12 2003 within four days there is no evidence on record to show that the child witness had an opportunity to see and study the features of the accused between their arrest and test identification parade to enable a tutored identification.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
state of u p 1970 2 scc 128 1970 indlaw sc 136 where this court made the following observations 7 now facts which establish the identity of an accused person are relevant u s 9 of the indian evidence act.
as a general rule the substantive evidence of a witness is a statement made in court.
the evidence of mere identification of the accused person at the trial for the first time is from its very nature inherently of a weak character.
it is accordingly considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witnesses in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding.
the identification parades belong to the investigation stage.
they are generally held during the course of investigation with the primary object of enabling the witnesses to identify persons concerned in the offence who were not previously known to them.
this serves to satisfy the investigating officers of the bona fides of the prosecution witnesses and also to furnish evidence to corroborate their testimony in court.
it is for this reason that the identification parades in this case seem to have been held under the supervision of a magistrate.
keeping in view the purpose of identification parades the magistrates holding them are expected to take all possible precautions to eliminate any suspicion of unfairness and to reduce the chance of testimonial error.
they must therefore take intelligent interest in the proceedings bearing in mind two considerations i that the life and liberty of an accused may depend on their vigilance and caution and ii that justice should be done in the identification.
generally speaking the magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
the identification to be of value should also be held without much delay.
the observations of this court undoubtedly lay down the correct law and we have no reason to doubt them.
in such a situation it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding as observed by this court in budhsen s case 1970 indlaw sc 136 supra.
state of haryana air 1999 sc 1083 1999 indlaw sc 391 and ramashish yadav vs.
9 scc 696 2012 indlaw sc 343.
there is no evidence of his having played any part in the crime.
mahesh did not even act as a guard he did not prevent anil kumar pw 21 from entering the house.
having regard to the role attributed to him and the absence of incriminating factors we find that it is not safe to convict mahesh of the offence of murder with the aid of ss 34 and 120b.
we therefore hold that the accused mahesh accused no 3 in criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 is innocent and the conviction against him is set aside.
