The first sub section lays down how the business is to be assessed when it is discontinued in any year and sub section 2 provides that any person discontinuing business must give a notice on pain of a penalty.
But the Income tax Act recognises a firm for purposes of assessment as a unit independent of the partners constituting it; it invests the firm with a personality which survives reconstitution.
A clear authority for this proposition is to be found in the decision of the Bombay High Court in Ambalal Himatlal vs Commissioner of Income tax and Excess Profits Tax, Bombay North(1).
In the assessment year 1939 40, he claimed that in view of the provisions of section 25 (3) of the Act of 1922, as amended in 1939, his income from the business made during the year 1938 was not taxable.
Since those words meant the date when the Act came into force on April 1, 1939, they could not be carried back to a date anterior to April 1, 1939 and on that date Polson ceased to be the owner of the business.
As regards the words "discontinued" and "discontinuance" in section 25, Lord Simonds pointed out that they had been the subject of numerous decisions and that it had been uniformly decided that the words did not cover a mere change of ownership but referred only to complete cessation of the business.
If we were to go by the original business, excluding the newly started busi ness of manufacture of umbrella and soap, I must say at once that there has been no succession and this case falls squarely within the rule of this Court in Figgies 's case.
It follows from the provisions of the section that a mere change in the constitution of the partnership does not necessarily bring into existence a new assessable unit or a distinct assessable entity and in such a case there is no devolution of the business as a whole." This court pointed out that though under the law of Partner ship a firm has no legal existence apart from its partners and it is merely a name to describe its partners compendiously, it is equally true that under that law also there is ordinarily no dissolution of the firm by the mere incoming or outgoing of partners.
In other words, though a firm was to be regarded as an entity for the purpose of the Income tax Act, that entity was not to be taken to be disturbed by the coming in or going out of partners any more than that entity could be disturbed under the law of Partnership.
On March 28, 1939, there was a family partition and some vilasams were allotted to the father and the rest to the son, and he was the assessee ' In the assessment year 1939 40, the son claimed that there was a discontinuance of the business within the meaning of section 25(3) of the Income tax Act, 1922 and claimed the benefit of that sub section on the ground that the business of them joint family was taxed under the Act of 1918 and he was not liable to pay tax for the period between April 13, 1938 and March 28, 1939.
Satyanarayana Rao, J. held that as the unit had disintegrated into its component parts so as to annihilate the unity of the business, each part which was thus divided was not identical with the whole, even though all the parts taken together constituted the whole and that, when the unifying principle of that whole no longer existed, the parts gained their individuality and became separate and distinct.
The Income tax Act thinks, not in terms of joint family business, but in terms of business in a business sense, and it is the business which was taxed under the Act of 1918 which must cease to exist before the benefit of section 25(3) can be obtained.
His rights in the firm were extremely ,slender; he had to make a deposit of Rs. 15,000 with the head firm and he was to get a remuneration of Rs. 400 p.m. which was to go up or down according to the profits.
The Tribunal also held that the business in soap and umbrella was different from the business of banking, piece goods and yarn, and the amalgamation of these two businesses in 1943 amounted to a succession by a newly constituted firm.
The High Court, therefor,, held that succession had taken place in 1939 and again in 1943 and the claim on the basis of the transfer to the limited liability company in 1948 was too late.
It was recently pointed out by us in Shivram Poddar vs Income tax Officer, Calcutta and another(1) thus: "Under the ordinary law governing partnerships, modification in the constitution of the firm in the absence of a special agreement to the contrary amounts to dissolution of the firm and reconsitution thereof, a firm at common law being a group of individuals who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all, and supersession of the agreement brings about an end of the rela tion.
This is also clear from the words "not being merely a change in the constitution of a partnership." Since the In come tax Act assesses a partnership as a unit and such units (1) Civil Appeal NO.
The High Court of Bombay upheld the contention of Polson, but the Privy Council reversed the decision approving the decision of the Madras High Court in Meyyappa vs Commissioner of Income tax, Madras(1).
In all taxation matters more emphasis must be placed upon the business aspect of the transaction rather than on the purely legal and technical aspect;. " ' Judged from this standpoint, the entry of Hemchand was not a dissolution of the firm of Sait Nagjee Purushotham and Co. He was brought in merely to do the business at one of the branches and to receive remuneration for doing the work.
The very fact that he was not taken on in the original business also shows that the original business in respect of which alone the benefit of section 25(3) and (4) can be claimed, continued uninterrupted.
In Dulichand vs The Commissioner of Income tax, Nagpur (2) , it was pointed out by this Court that commercial men and accountants are apt to look upon a firm in the light in which lawyers look upon a corporation, that is, as a body distinct from the members composing it, and such a separate existence has been recognised under the Scottish law.
A firm discontinuing its business may be assessed in the manner provided by section 25 (1) in the year of account in which it discontinues its business; it may also be assessed in the year of assessment.
It was pointed out by this Court in Charandas vs Haridas(1) that those whose duty it is to apply the provisions of the Income tax Act must bear in mind that what may be the resulting position under the law of partnership and/or the Hindu Law is not necessarily the resulting position under the Income tax Act.
This Court also pointed out that the position is a little different under the Income tax Act where a firm is charged as an assessable entity distinct from its partners who can also be assessed individually.
As was pointed out by Chagla C.J. in .,Commissioner of Income tax, Bombay City vs Kolhia Hirdagarh Co. Ltd., Bombay(1) and again in Commissioner of Income tax, Bombay City vs Sir Homi Mehta 's Executors (2), such documents must be interpreted not in a legalistic way (1) (2) 126 but on their true business aspect.
