Now we find from the history we have already narrated above that every time there was a merger and formation of a new State, the old laws were always to continue till they were repealed, amended or altered by the new State.
If the intention was otherwise, we should have found a provision similar to that in the Pepsu case by which all the old laws were repealed in the merging States except Patiala and the Patila laws were to continue in the entire territory giving rise to such rights only as the Patiala Laws recognised or conferred.
In this connection we may also refer to section 3 of the Raja sthan Administration Ordinance No. 1 of 1949, which conti nued existing laws of the old States till they were altered by the competent legislature or other competent authority in the new State.
This was the basis of the particular decision arrived at in that case (apart from the general principles laid down in connection with the cession of territory to which we have already referred), and we shall refer to it when dealing with the facts in the present case.
We have already indicated when dealing with the history of the political changes which eventually culminated in the 181 Part B State of Rajasthan after the coming into force of the Constitution that two matters were always provided for there during all this process of merger.
We are of opinion that when the new State continued all the old laws till they were altered or repealed, and there was specific provision in each Covenant that the assets and liabilities of the Covenanting States were to be the assets and liabilities of the Union the new State must have intended to respect all the rights flowing from laws so continued and assume all liabilities arising from the existence of those laws.
Thus by continuing the old laws, till they are repealed, altered or modified, the new State in effect undertook the liability which might arise against it by virtue of the continuance of the old laws, Even if there was some doubt about the new State undertaking the liabilities of the old State in view of the continuance of the old laws, we can in accordance with the decision in the Daltia Dadri Cement Co. 's case(1) look to article VI of the Covenant to come to the conclusion that on continuing the old laws, until they were altered, repealed or modified, the (1) [1959] S.C.R. 729.
We are therefore of opinion that there was recognition of liability by the new State throughout this process and under the circumstances the suit was main tainable against the Part B State of Rajasthan in view of article 295(2) of the Constitution.
Whether that is so or not, it follows in view of the history to which we have referred that there was always recognition by the new State of its liability in the manner already referred to with respect to the liabilities of the merging States, and if there is any doubt about it that doubt in our opinion is resolved by the existence of article VI or similar provision throughout the process of these political changes.
