And rent is not land within the meaning of the definition." This Court observed in Mrs. Bacha F. Guzdar, Bombay Commissioner of Income tax, Bombay(4) as follow: "Agricultural income as defined in the Act is intended to refer to the revenue received by direct association with the land which is used for agricultural purposes and not by indirectly extending it to cases where that revenue or part thereof changes hands either by way of distribution of dividends or otherwise." (1) ; (2) (3) 16 I.T.R.325 (4) 705 The same test was adopted by this Court in Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax, Bihar and Orissa(1) and the Court again looked to the source of the right in order to determine whether income was agricultural income or not.
The remuneration not being received as rent or revenue of agricultural lands under a title, legal or beneficial in the property from which the income is received, it is not income exempt under section 4(3)(viii).
To call a payment a loan if it is really an annuity does not assist the taxpayer, any more than to call an item a capital payment would prevent it from being regarded as an income payment if that is its true nature.
" It follows from the decisions of the Privy Council and the judgments of this Court cited above that if it is held in this case that the source of the allowance or pension is the arrangement arrived at in 1837.
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commissioner of Inland Revenue vs Wesleyan and General Assurance Society(1): "It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income tax.
Lord Simon observed: "Secondly, a transaction which, on its true construction, is of a kind that would escape tax, is not taxable on the ground that the same result could be brought about by a transaction in another form which would attract tax.
That particular doctrine of substance as distinct from form was, I hope, finally exploded by the decision of the House of Lords in the case of Duke of Westminster vs Commissioner of Inland Revenue(2)".
This is true, but in this case no material has been produced to show that the allowance was in fact a payment in instalments of the value of the disputed title of the assessee 's predecessor in 1837.
Shah, J., observed: "The appellant has no beneficial interest in the lands which are the subject matter of the trust: nor is he given under the trust a right to receive and appropriate to himself the income of the properties or a part thereof in lieu of any beneficial interest in that income.
The source of the right in which a fraction of the net income of the trust is to be appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration is not in the right to receive rent or revenue of agricultural lands, but rests in the covenant in the deed to receive remuneration for management of the trust.
