A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work (which cannot exceed 9) is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
The section so read lays down : "Where an employee. . . works on any day in excess of 9 hours, the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate. . . " Under Rule 25 (1) (b) this overtime rate is double the ordinary rate of wages.
"54.Daily hours Subject to the provisions of section 51, no adult worker shall be required or allowed to work in a factory for more than nine hours in any day Provided. . . "55.
The reason, perhaps, is that in some employments time for work depends on some 643 extraneous factors and hours of rest cannot always be fixed to, break up those hours.
There is clear antinomy between hours of work and intervals of rest in sub rules (1) and (2) of Rule 24 and the phrase 'inclusive of one or more specified intervals ' governs the normal working day and not the number of hours of work.
This is achieved by pres cribing that the hours of work in a six day week shall not exceed 48, although on any particular day the hours of work in a day may go up to 9.
The crew at the Prince 's and Victoria Docks work in a different way and their case cannot be compared with that of the Flotilla Crew or the crew at the Alexandra Docks.
The periods of work of an adult worker in a factory shall be so arranged that inclusive of his intervals for rest under section 55 they shall not spread over more than ten and a half hours in any day: Provided that the Chief Inspector may, for reasons to be specified in writing, increase the spread over to twelve hours.
These periods of rest must not be periods during which the workman is on duty and inaction is due to want of work for him, but they must be pre determined periods of inaction during which the workman is neither called upon nor expected to display physical activity or sustained attention.
As in the present case the total number of hours of work in a week is 48 (8 hours per day for 6 days) overtime is payable for that hour or part of an hour beyond the 8 hours in which the workman is either made to work or the interval is not specified.
The Port Trust can say that it will not take more than two hours extra work on any day and specify the remaining two hours as the intervals for rest.
There is no provision in the which breaks up the hours of work by interposing a compulsory period of rest as is done by the latter part of section 55 of the .
He can specify the intervals of rest and spread the 8 hours or 9 hours, as the case may be, together with intervals of rest over 12 hours in a twelvehour shift.
