At the same time, section 10 of the Limitation Act was amended by addition of an explanatory clause which provided, inter alia, that for the purposes of section 10, any property comprised in a Hindu religious or charitable endowment shall be deemed to be property vested in trust for a specific purpose, and the manager of any such property shall be deemed to be the trustee thereof.
In appreciating the effect of this decision, it is necessary to bear in mind that the plea of limitation with which the Privy Council was concerned in that case was based on article 124 of the Limitation Act.
It may be permissible to state that this latter observation was made in 1899 long before the Privy Council enunciated the true legal position in regard to the status of the managers of Hindu religious endowments in Vidya Varuthi 's case(1).
It does appear that Mr. Justice Mukhejea had expressed this view as a Judge of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Hemanta Kumari Basu vs Sree Ishwar Sridhar Jiu, (2) and had relied on the two Privy Council 's decisions in Gnanasambanda 's(1) and Damodar Das 's cases In the case of Hemanta Kumari Basa(2), the attention of Mukherjea J. was drawn to the fact that in an earlier decision of the Calcutta High Court in Ronald Duncan Cromartic and Francis Arthur Shephard Sutherland, vs Sri Iswar Radha Damodar few and Others, (4) D. N. Mitter, J., had made observations which were inconsistent with the view which Mukhejea, J. was disposed to take; but the learned Judge commented on the said observations by saying that they were open to criticism.
Confining ourselves to the first column of article 134 B at this stage, the question which we have to decide is : does this article permit any distinction to be made between transfers effected by a previous manager on the basis that the property transferred belongs to the religious endowment, and those made by him on the basis that the said property is his own private property ? If the property is transferred by the manager on the basis that it belongs to the endowment, article 134 B clearly applies; but does it make any difference to the application of article 134 B if the transfer is made on the other basis that the property belongs not to the endowment, but to the manager himself ? In either case, the successor who challenges the alienation, will have to prove that the property in fact belongs to the religious endowment.
The character of the representations made by the previous manager in regard to his relation with the property which is the subject matter of transfer, is irrelevant for the purpose of article 134 B. 130 All transfers made would fall within article 134 B if the three essential facts are proved by the successor of the transferor manager of the Hindu religious endowment.
Therefore, we do not think that Mr. Tatachari is justified in contending that the transfers with which we are concerned in the present appeal fall outside the purview of article 134 B inasmuch as they are effected by the alienors, on the representations that the properties transferred belonged to them as their separate properties.
Article 134 B applies to all cases where it is shown that the immovable property was comprised in the endowment and that it has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
