Without prejudice to its powers under section 235, the Central Government (a) (b) may do so (i.e. appoint one or more competent persons as inspectors to investigate etc.) if, in the opinion of the Central Government, there are circumstances suggesting (i) that the business of the company is being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors, members or any other persons, or otherwise for a fraudulent or unlawful purpose, or in a manner oppressive of any of its members, or that the company was formed for any fraudulent or unlawful purpose; (ii) that persons concerned in the formation of the company or the management of its affairs have in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance or other misconduct towards the company or towards any of its members; or (iii) that the members of the company have not been given all the information with respect to its affairs which they might reasonably expect, including information relating to the calculation of the commission payable to a managing or other director, the managing agent, the secretaries and treasurers, or the manager, of the company.
(1) As soon as may be after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1963, the Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute a Board to be called the Board of Company Law Admin istration to exercise and discharge such powers and functions conferred on the Central Government by or under this Act or any other law as may be delegated to it by that Government.
Distribution of business The Chairman may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, by order in writing, distribute the business of the Board among himself and the other member or members, and specify the cases or classes of cases which shall be considered jointly by the Board.
" The Chairman by an order dated February 6, 1964 specified the cases or classes of cases which are to be considered jointly by the Board and distributed the remaining business of the Board between the Chairman and the member each acting individually.
with the previous approval of the Central Government, may, by order in writing, 334 authorise the chairman or any of its other members or its principal officer (whether known as secretary or by any other name) to exercise and discharge, subject to such conditions and limitations, if any, as may be specified in the order, such of its powers and functions as it may think fit; and every order made or act done in the exercise of such powers or discharge of such functions shall be deemed to be the order or act, as the case may be, of the Board.
The Chairman obtained the opinion of quite a few of his assistants (perhaps more than was altogether necessary) and this fact is stated to establish his fairness to and honest dealing with the Company.
This brings me to the third and the last question, namely, whether mala fides or the ultra vires nature of the action has been established in this case to merit interference at our hands.
(d) That information has been withheld from the members about its affairs which might reasonably be expected including calculation of commission payable to (i) managing or other director, (ii) managing agent, (iii) the secretaries and treasurers, (iv) the managers.
In other words, the enumeration of the inferences which may be drawn from the circumstances, postulates the absence of a general discretion to go on a fishing expedition to find evidence.
As my brother Shelat has put it trenchantly: "It is not reasonable to say that the clause permitted the government to say that it has formed the opinion on circumstances which it thinks exist. . . .
But if the circumstances pointed out are such that no inference of the kind stated in section 237(b) can at all be drawn the action would be ultra vires the Act and void.
However from the Memoranda received by the Board referred to in paragraph 5 and other examination it appeared inter alia that: (i) there had been delay, bungling and faulty planning of this project, resulting in double expenditure, for which the collaborators had put the responsibility upon the Managing Director, Petitioner No. 2, 338 (ii) Since its floatation the company has been continuously showing losses and nearly 1/3rd of its share capital has been wiped off; (iii) that the shares of the company which to start with were at a premium were being quoted on the Stock Exchange at half their fa ce value; and (iv) some eminent persons who had initially accepted seats on the Board of directors of the company had subsequently severed their connections with it due to differences with Petitioner No. 2 on account of the manner in which the affairs of the company were being conducted.
In other words, the act of the Chairman was in the nature of, a fishing expedition and not after satisfaction that the affairs of the Company were being carried on even prima facie with the intent to defraud or that the persons incharge were guilty of fraud or other misconduct.
The order dated May 19, 1965 was passed by the Chairman of the Company Law Board Mr. Setalvad submitted that only the Board could pass an order under section 237, the Central Government could delegate its function under section 237 to the Board but it had no power to authorise the Chairman to sub delegate this function to himself and consequently, the Company Law Board (Procedure) Rules, 1964 made by the Central Government on February 1, 1964 and the Chairman 's order of distribution of business dated February 6, 1964 delegating the function of the Board under section 237 to the Chairman are ultra vires the and the impugned order is invalid.
On August 25, 1959 and September 23, 1960 appellant No. 2 obtained two licences for the manufacture of 2500 and 1900 tonnes of barium chemicals per year in the name of Transworld Traders of which lie was the proprietor.
On December 23, 1960 the 2nd appellant wrote a letter to the Minister of Commerce and Industry objecting to the grant of a licence to M/s. T. T. K. & Co. Both were considered by the Licensing Committee.
, In the mean time, respondent No. 2 was appointed a, Minister without portfolio and rejoined the Cabinet which lie had left ' earlier owing to certain circumstances which are not relevant for the present.
From January, 1962 to March, 1963, he continued as a L/S5SCI 24 344 Minister without portfolio but from March, 1963 to September, 1963, he became the Minister for Defence and Economic Co ordination and thereafter the Finance Minister.
Lord Poole agreed that the British company would put in pound 250,000 in addition to the amount already invested by it and that production would commence from June, 1965.
Now the Chairman in his affidavit referred to two memoranda dated May 30, 1964 and July 4, 1964 presented by certain ex directors and also stated that from September 1961 complaints were being received in regard to the conduct of the affairs of the Company, and one such complaint was received from Special Police Establishment in November 1963.
Briefly put, those circumstances are delay, bungling and faulty planning by the management resulting in double expenditure, huge losses, sharp fall in the price of the Company 's shares and the resignation of some of the directors on account of differences in opinion with 343 the managing director.
These inferences are of many kinds and it will be useful to make a mention of them here in a tabular form: (a) that the business is being conducted with intent to defraud (i) creditors of the company, or (ii) members, 336 or (iii) any other person; (b) that the business is being conducted (i) for a fraudulent purpose or (ii) for an unlawful purpose; (c) that persons who formed the company or manage its affairs have been guilty of (i) fraud or (ii) misfeasance or other misconduct to wards the company or towards any of its members.
I am all the more persuaded to come to this conclusion having regard to the fact that in paragraph 14 of his affidavit the Chairman has disclosed the circumstances which he took into account in passing the order.
The words "in the opinion of the Central Government" indicate that the opinion must be formed by the Central Government and it is of course implicit that the opinion must be an honest opinion.
In Cook vs Ward(1), the Court held that where a drainage board constituted by an Act of Parliament was authorised by it to delegate its powers to a committee, the powers so delegated to the committee must be exercised by them acting in concert and it was not competent to them to apportion those powers amongst themselves and one of them acting, alone, pursuant to such apportionment, could not justify his acts under the statute.
This shows that the appellants were in a position to dictate to the collaborating company which they would not have been able to do if they were guilty of fraudulent conduct.
The learned Attorney General submitted that a distribution of business among the members of the Company Law Board is not a delegation of its authority, and the maxim has no application in 341 such a case.
Appellant No. 2 who is the managing director of the company is not a citizen, but even assuming that section 237(b) imposes restrictions on his right of property or his right to carry on his occupation as managing director, those restrictions are reasonable and are imposed in the interests of the general public.
It is not sufficient to assert that the circumstances exist and give no clue to what they are because the circumstances must be such as to lead to conclusions of certain definiteness.
The naming of I delegate to, do an act involving a discretion indicates that the delegate was selected because of his peculiar skill and the confidence reposed in him, and there is a presumption that he is required to do the act himself and cannot redelegate his authority.
In dealing with this problem the first point to notice is that the power is discretionary and its exercise depends upon the honest formation of an opinion that an investigation is necessary.
(4) No act done by the Company Law Board shall be called in question on the ground only of any defect in the constitution of, or the existence of any vacancy in, the Company Law Board.
That is how action was taken in the name of the Board but by the Chairman and is the subject of challenge for the reason that a power delegated to the Board as a whole cannot be delegated to an individual member in the absence of a provision such as sub section
It is quite clear that its absence would give rise to the argument accepted by me, which argument is unanswerable in the absence of a provision such as the new sub section.
This was admitted by the appellants who pointed out that after considerable negotiations they induced Lord Poole, the President of the collaborating firm, to invest a further sum of pound 25,000.
Therefore, all that I have to consider is whether the action of the Chairman can be challenged as done either contrary to the provisions empowering him or beyond those provisions.
If the action is questioned on the ground that no circumstance leading to an inference of the kind contemplated by the section exists, the action might be exposed to interference unless the existence of the circumstances is made out.
If he has, his action cannot be questioned because the in reference is to be drawn subjectively and even if this Court would not have drawn a similar inference that fact would be irrelevant.
The nature of the complaints was not disclosed but in reference to the memoranda it was stated that "irregularities" and "illegalities" in the conduct of the affairs of the Company was alleged therein.
It was also stated that the memoranda "were supported by documentary evidence and details of the impugned transactions and the signatories offered to produce witnesses with knowledge of these transactions".
In my opinion there is nothing to show that the, reports which were being received from September 1961, or the report of the Special Police Establishment indicated fraud.
He also said that he had seen the papers and agreed with his two Under Secretaries and the Regional Director that a "deeper probe" was necessary ' There is no hint even in this affidavit that the circumstances were such as to suggest fraud, intent to defraud or misconduct, this is to say, circumstances under which investigation can be ordered.
Lord Coleridge, C. J. said at p. 262: "It was not competent to them to delegate powers, which required the united action of the three, to be exercised according to the unaided judgment of one of them." Again, in Vine vs National Dock Labour Board(1), the House of Lords, held that a local board set up, under the scheme embodied in the schedule to the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Order, 1947 had no power to assign its disciplinary function under cls.
One of these proposals was that the company should be reorganised and its share capital should be distributed in the following proportions: 49 per cent to the appellant company, 26 per cent to Kali Chemie and 25 per cent to M/s. T. T. K. & Co. It was also proposed that Kali Chemie should take over the responsibility on the production side, the appellant company would be responsible for the management and M/s. T.T.K. & Co. should take over sales promotion.
On May 30, 1964 and July 9, 1964 four of its directors submitted two memoranda alleging irregularities and even illegalities in the conduct of the company 's affairs to the Company Law Board.
333 (2) The Company Law Board shall consist of such number of members, not exceeding five, as the Central Government deems fit, to be appointed by that Government by notification in the Official Gazette.
Had the matter rested there it would have been a question whether this Court should interfere with a subjective opinion, when the affidavit showed that there were materials for consideration.
No reasonable person who had given proper consideration to these circumstances could have formed the opinion that they suggested any fraud as mentioned in the order dated May 19, 1965.
In September, 1964, a meeting was affanged in London between the company 's representatives and the representatives of L.A. Mitchell Ltd., of which Lord Poole was the Chairman.
In other words, he has not disclosed anything from which it can be said that the inference which he has drawn that the Company was being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors, members and other persons or persons concerned in the management of the affairs of the Company were guilty of fraud, misfeasance and misconduct towards the company and its members was based on circumstances present before him.
In view of my decision on the question of delegation it is hardly necessary to decide this question but since contradictory opinions have been expressed on it by my brethren Mudholkar and Shelat.
If a statute entrusts an administrative function involving the exercise of a discretion to a Board consisting of two or more persons it is to be presumed that each member of the Board should exercise his individual judgment on the matter and all, the members of the Board should act together and arrive at a joint decision.
But, on reading this affidavit as a whole and the affidavit of Mr. Dang, I am satisfied that in paragraph 14 of his affidavit the Chairman has set out all the material circumstances which bad emerged on an examination of the various materials before him.
The appellant company is a public limited company registered on July 28, 1961 having its registered office at Ramavaram in Andhra Pradesh and the second appellant was at all material times and is still its managing director.
The first part which is (a) compels the Central Government to appoint inspectors to investigate and report if the company by a special resolution or the court by order declares that the affairs be investigated.
The new sub section involves a delegation of the powers of the Central Government to a member of the Board which the Act previously allowed to be made to the Board only.
In these circumstances, I cannot go by the allegations made against the Chairman of the Board personally or those made against the Minister, and I find no evidence to hold that dishonesty on the part of the one or malice on the part of the other lies at the root of this action.
The report was next considered by two Under Secretaries arid by the Secretary of the Company Law board who all agreed "that there was need for a deeper probe into the affairs of the Company".
In the context of section 10E, I am inclined to construe this rule making power liberally The Central Government has power to constitute the Company Law Board, to delegate its functions to the Board and to control (1) (2) 342 the Board in the exercise of its delegated functions.
In this background, by conferring on the Central Government the additional power of framing rules regulating the procedure of the Board and generally to carry out the purposes of section 10E, the Parliament must have intended that the internal Organisation of the Board and the mode and manner of transacting its business should be regulated entirely by rules framed by the Government.
We find, however, that the Central Government had under sections 10E(5) and 642(1) ample power to frame rules authorising the Chairman to distribute the business of the Board.
By section 237(b) the power is conferred on the Central Government but under the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1963 a Board of Company Law,, Administration consisting of a Chairman and a member has been set up.
339 The first circumstance is "delay, bungling and faulty plan ning" resulting in "double expenditure" for which the collaborators had put the responsibility on the second appellant.
No doubt, the section confers a discretion but it sets its own limits upon the discretion by stating clearly what must be looked for in the shape of evidence before the drastic act of investigation into the affairs of a company can be taken.
(4A) in section 10E. Sections 235, 237(a) and 237(b) enable the Central Govern ment to make an order appointing an inspector to investigate the affairs of a company in different sets of circumstances, and the contention that section 237(b) is discriminatory and is violative of article 14 must fail.
On April 4, 1965, a meeting of the company 's directors was held in New Delhi which was attended by one Kriegstein, a representative of Kali Chemie and also by the General Manager of M/s. T. T. K. & Co. Certain proposals were discussed and it was decided that the company should give notice to L. A. Mitchell Ltd. canceling the agreement with them.
(5) of section 10E the Central Government made the Company Law Board (Procedure) Rules, 1964 and one such rule dealt with distribution of business to the following effect: "3.
" The question thus arises what has the Chairman placed before the Court to indicate that his action was within the four corners of his own powers? Here it must be noticed that members are ordinarily expected to take recourse to the Registrar because there they have to be in a certain number or command a certain proportion of the voting power.
As a general rule, "if the, statute directs that certain acts shall be done in a specified manner or by certain persons, their performance in any other manner than that specified or by any other person than one of those name is impliedly prohibited.
By May 11, 1965, the position therefore was that the collaboration agreement between the company and L. A. Mitchell Ltd. was agreed to be continued and consequently the negotiations with the German company and M/s. T. T. K. & Co., were not to proceed further.
It may be mentioned that in paragraph 16 of the affidavit the Chairman also stated: "With reference to paragraph 21 of the petition, I have already stated above that there was ample material before the Board on which it could and did form the opinion that there were circumstances suggesting that the business of the company was being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors, members and other persons and further that the persons concerned in the management of the affairs of the company had in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
I think that these circumstances, without more, cannot reasonably suggest that the business of the company was being conducted to defraud the creditors, members and other persons or that the management was guilty of fraud towards the company and its members.
On May It 1965 another meeting took place when it was decided that without prejudice to what was stated in the notice of April 4, 1965, the appellant company should withdraw para 9 thereof whereby the agreement between them was terminated.
On May 19 1965 the first respondent passed the impugned order which inter alia stated: "In the opinion of the Company Law Board there are circumstances suggesting that the business of M/s Barium Chemicals Ltd is being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors, members and other persons; and further that the persons concerned in the management of the affairs of the company have in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
While he was so negotiating, M/s., ,T. T. Krishnamachari & Co., who were the sole selling agents of the said German Company, approached the 2nd appellant for the sole selling agency of barium products of the plant proposed to be put up by the 2nd appellant.
an agreement between the appellant company and L.A. Mitchell Ltd., of Manchester was signed where under the latter agreed to put up the plant on the appellant company agreeing to pay them pound 184,500.
The company realised this fact only in June, 1964 when it received a survey report after the breakdown of the plant during that month from M/s. Humphreys and Glascow (Overseas) Ltd., Bombay.
It was agreed that L. A. Mitchell Ltd., should depute M/s. Humphreys and Glascow Ltd., London,to go through the designs etc., and to make a report showing the causes of the repeated failures of the plant and suggesting remedies there for.
It is not necessary to go into it.
These grounds limit the jurisdiction of the Central Govern ment.
It may be said at once, that apart from that allegation, nothing has been said attributing to the Chairman any personal bias, grudge, oblique motive or ulterior purpose.
This is indicated by the enumeration of the four circumstances, I have extracted from his affidavit and I proceed to analyse them.
