The word is used sometimes to mean the computation of income, sometimes the determination of the amount of tax payable, and sometimes the whole procedure laid down in the Income tax Act for imposing liability on the tax payer.
" This section was amended by section 8 of the Madras General Sales tax (3rd amendment) Act, 1956 which reads as follows (1) 666 "Substitution of new section for section 10 in Madras Act IX of 1939.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment, the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
Section 10 of the Act as it stood before the Madras General Sales tax (3rd amendment) Act, 1956 (Act No. XV of 1956) read as follows "The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments, if any, and within such time, as may be specified in the notice of assessment, not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment, the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act. . .
Payment and recovery of tax. (1) The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments, if any, and within such time, as may be specified in the notice of assessment, not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
Payment and recovery of tax. (1) The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments, if any, and within such time, as may be specified in the notice of assessment, not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
" In the present case, the Act is not expressed to come into operation on any particular date, but as it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8, 1956, the Act came into operation on that date and not before.
In the present case, the business which was transferred to the respondent was hence charged with the payment of sales tax and it was open to sales tax authorities to proceed against the assets of the business for realising the amount of sales tax due.
It was, however, disputed by Mr. Ganapathy Iyer on behalf of the respondent that there was any undertaking on the part of the respondent to discharge the liabilities in regard to arrears of sales tax.
The liability is definitely created by sections 3 and 4 of the Income tax Act which are the charging sections and the assessment order under section 23 only quantifies the liability which has already been definitely and finally created by the charging sections and the provision in regard to assessment relates only to the machinery of taxation.
We consider that, in the context and background of other sections of the Act, the word 'assessment ' used in section 19(2)(c) does not include the power of recovering tax assessed from a person other than the assessee.
(1) Where any Act to which this Chapter applies is not expressed to come into operation, on a particular day, then, it shall come into operation on the day on which the assent thereto of the Governor, the Gover nor General or the President, as the case may require, is first published in the Official Gazette.
But even on the assumption that the respondent undertook to pay the arrears of sales tax due by the transferor, it does not follow 66 7 that there is a liability created inter se between the State Government on the one hand and the transferee on the other hand.
