This date shows that r.5 is dealing only with appeals against levy of any tax and not with the assessment or imposition of a tax or any further appeals to the Panchayat Simiti under section 124(5).
Apart from the fact that it may in certain circumstances lead to illegal levies, there is nothing in the language of r.21 which indicates that the Collector can regularise an imposition made without the authority of law.
Similarly, in the grounds of appeal to the Standing Committee, vague allegations were made "that the village Panchayat has erred in law in not following the procedure contemplated by law in the matter of imposing the octroi and has acted contrary to the principles of natural justice on an assumption that the formalities contemplated by law were complied with." He relies on the notice which is on the record to show that as a matter of fact the publication was not in accordance with law.
Rule 7 which deals with tax on buildings and lands also prescribes that the panchayat shall follow the procedure prescribed in rr.3 and 4 before levying a tax on buildings and lands.
The Collector may in particular cases enlarge the octroi limits or reduce the octroi limits and it would lead to great confusion if either of the things happens after the Panchayat had been collecting octroi duty within the octroi limits submitted by it to collector for approval.
It is also not quite clear whether the tea which is imported by the Company is known in trade circles as a different commodity from the tea actually sent out in boxes.
It would be noticed that the rule which authorises the levy is r.22, but it enjoins that the procedure prescribed in rr.3 and 4 should be followed before the octroi duty can be levied.
The High Court held that "r.3(b) must therefore be interpreted as requiring the Panchayat to notify to the public not only the the proposal about the tax selected by it for levy, but also the rules relating to that tax which must mean the action taken under the Act and the rules.
Para 2 of the return only alleged: "This respondent says that at that time no copy of the Rules required to be published by Rule 4 of the Rules was exhibited along with the said Notice.
The High Court has held that as r. 5 applies to all appeals under s.124(5) of the Panchayat Act, the fixing of the commencement of the period of limitation as the date of publication of the notice under r.4 for all appeals is arbitrary and destructive of the right of appeal.
Rule 5 follows imme diately rr.3 and 4 and is headed "Appeal against levy of any tax or fee", and the period of sixty days of limitation commences from the date of the publication of the notice under r.4, i.e., the notice following the decision of a Panchayat to levy any tax or fee.
Under r.3(d) what the panchayat does is to consider objections and suggestions and then finally make the choice as regards two things, i.e., the tax or fee to be imposed and the rate at which it is to be levied.
He points out a passage in the judgment of the High Court but we are unable to agree with him that the High Court has implied that this point was raised before it.
