The government, in its turn should appreciate the anxiety of the High Court that judicial officers should not be allowed to acquire vested interest in the secretariat.
What is of the essence in a decision is its ratio and not every observation found therein nor what logically follows from the various observations made in it.
As Shri K.K. Bose and Shri B.K. Patro had not been placed at the disposal of the government for any definite period, it was open to the High Court to recall them and post them as presiding officers of district courts.
then the transfer of District Judges already appointed or promoted and posted in the cadre must necessarily be outside the power of the Governor and fall to be made by the High Court as part of the control vested in it by article 235." After analysing articles 233 and 235 and noticing the development of the law on the subject this Court held that under article 233, the Governor is only concerned with the appointment, promotion and posting to the cadre of district judges but not with the transfer of district judges already appointed or promoted and posted to the cadre which power is vested in the High Court under article 235 as the control given to the High Court over the district courts under that Article includes control over the officers who preside over those courts.
But we were told that in view of the decisions of this Court in State of West Bengal vs Nripendra Nath Bagchi(1) and State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad(2) the High Court must be held to have that right as those posts are included in the cadre of superior judicial service.
Before considering the correctness of that submission it is necessary to notice that this argument breaks down when we come to the question of filling up the post of the Registrar.
Such a mode of reasoning assumes that the law is necessarily a logical code, whereas every lawyer must acknowledge that the law is not always logical at all.
It was conceded that if those posts had not been included in the cadre of superior judicial service the High Court would not have had any right to fill those posts.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues, with personal information, deal with the matter, than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
Neither Bagchi 's case nor Ranga Mahammad 's case is of any assistance to us in deciding the question whether the High Court has competence to fill some of the posts in the secretariat by transfer judicial officers under Its control.
Just as the High Court resents any interference by the executive in the functioning of the judiciary, the executive has a right to ask the High Court not to interfere with its functions.
Just as the executive cannot know the requirements of a particular court, the High Court also cannot know the requirements of any post in the secretariat.
At the end of that period, the government is bound to allow him to go back to his parent department unless the High Court agrees to spare his services for some more time.
Except for very good reasons we think the High Court should always be 164 willing to spare for an agreed period the services of any of the officers under its control for filling up such executive posts as may require the services of judicial officers.
The only question that fell for decision in that case was whether the government of West Bengal was competent to institute disciplinary proceedings against an addl.
The rule laid down in that decision is of no assistance in determining the question as to whether the High Court has power to fill up some of the posts in the secretariat.
No doubt all these officers belong to the judicial service of the State and they were before 1962 presiding over district courts or courts subordinate to them and as such were under the control of the High Court.
But it was beyond the powers of the High Court to post Shri K.B. Panda as the law secretary, Shri T. Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri P.K. Mohanti as the deputy law secretary.
In the result these appeals are partly allowed and the order of the High Court holding that Shri B.K. Patro, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri P.C. Dey had no authority to hold the posts they were holding on or after October 10, 1966 is set aside.
For however well meaning a Minister may be he can never possess the same intimate knowledge of the working of the judiciary as a whole and of individual Judges, as the High Court.
In other words, the period during which a judicial officer should serve in an executive post must be settled by agreement between the High Court and the government.
