It appears to us that an Industrial Tribunal has the discretion, in appropriate cases, of making a direction linking the dearness allowance element of a wage to the Price Index; but, at the same time, the Tribunal is entitled to choose the alternative course of fixing the wage at the prevailing Price Index and leaving the labour to raise a fresh demand and, if necessary, a fresh industrial dispute for further rise in wages, in case there is marked variation in the Price Index and the wage fixed in the award becomes out dated.
The idea of fixing such wage in the light of cost of living at a particular juncture of time and of neutralising the rising prices of essential commodities by linking up scales of minimum wages with the cost of living index cannot, therefore, be said to be alien to the concept of a minimum wage.
It appears that the Tribunal did not accept this demand primarily on the ground that the distinction between casual workers and ' the permanent workers was recognised by both the parties in the agreement of 1959.
The Tribunal had directed that the increase of Rs. 12 p.m. in the total minimum wage packet allowed by it will enure to the benefit of the lowest paid female, badIi and permanent dailyrated workers also.
Learned counsel appearing for the Company drew our attention to the fact that the revised wages are payable with effect from 13th December, 1962 and, by this time, a period of 5 to 6 years has elapsed, so that the Company will have to pay arrears of wages for this long period.
The demand made by the workmen was for bonus equivalent to six months ' wages, and the argument was that, if the Tribunal had worked out the surplus available on the correct basis, that surplus would have certainly justified grant of profit bonus at the rate of six months ' wages.
The award had to cover the year 1963 64 also and at least for that year the accounts could not possibly have been completed, as that year was still running when the award was given by the Tribunal on the 11 th January, 1964.
He has stated that the Alumihium Factory at Hirakud carries on its work with the help of highly automatic machines and is ' supplied electricity by the Government at subsidised rates.
Consequently, in varying the award of the Tribunal we would direct that the 'total minimum wage packet of a workman in the Company shall be fixed ,at Rs. 95 consisting of ' the three elements of basic wage; dearness allowance and production bonus.
The pleading makes it clear that the claim for six months ' wages was not based on the Full Bench Formula, but on the ground that certain clerical staff was being paid bonus which, in effect, amounted to about six months ' basic wages, because the bonus was calculated ;in their case by taking into account the consolidated wages, including dearness allowance, while in the case of the workmen, the dearness allowance element of the wages was being ignored and bonus was calculated only by taking into account basic wages.
In fact, the principle which is being applied is the simple one of calculating the bonus payable at the rate of three months ' basic wage in each case and in no case is the dearness allowance taken into account.
On behalf of the workmen, it was urged before the Tribunal that the proportion should be 3: 1: 1, so that the production bonus and the dearness allowance would both be equal and 1/3rd of the basic wage.
Even though arrears will have to be paid for about 6 years, it has to be kept in view that, since then, there has been a very considerable rise in the Price index and the labour has not so far raised a fresh dispute for a further revision of wages over and above the wages fixed by the Tribunal which are being now refixed by us.
This argument fails, because it appears to us that the demand, as put forward before the Tribunal for bonus equivalent to six months ' wages, was, in fact, never made by the workmen on the basis that the surplus calculated under the Full Bench Formula would justify bonus being granted at that rate.
We are unable to hold that the Tribunal committed any error in arriving at this decision and, consequently, the total minimum wage fixed by us must also be deemed to have the same break up.
We are unable to hold that the Tribunal committed any error of law, requiring interference by us, in basing its decision on the principle contained in the earlier Agreement of the parties and in holding that there was no justification to introduce a new element of payment of bonus to casual and badIi workers at this stage.
It is clear that, in the Aluminium Factory, the number of workmen, who have to be paid production bonus is very small and almost insignificant as compared with the number in the Company 'In these circumstances, it would be more appropriate to compare the total wage packet of the Company with the wage packet received by the workmen of other industries in the region, viz., the three Collieries, the Rourkela Steel Plant, and the Cement Factory at Rajgangour.
Reference in this connection may be made to the decision of this Court in Hydro (Engineers) Pvt. Ltd. vs The Workmen,(x) where also the Court did not hold that it was compulsory to link minimum wage with the cost of living index and only envisaged that such linking may be permissible by holding that : "It is thus clear that the concept of minimum wage, does take in the factor of the prevailing cost of essen (1) ; 675 tial commodities whenever such minimum wage is to be fixed.
The claim was, in fact, based on the circumstances that, according to the workmen, the bonus in their case was being calculated as equivalent to three months ' basic wages, while, the case of some clerical staff, the calculation was made on the basis of their consolidated wages consisting of basic wages and dearness allowance.
In such cases, the calculation is still on the basis of basic wage, because it cannot be assumed that their wage is a consolidated wage consisting of the two 678 elements of basic wage and dearness allowance lumped together.
In connection with the fixation of minimum wage, one point vehemently argued by learned counsel for the workmen was that at least the dearness allowance element of the wage should have been made variable with the Price Index, so that the labour could automatically be compensated for further rise in the cost of living subsequent to the making of the award.
