Moreover, as pointed out by the High Court, the Inspector General of Prisons had the report before him and the tentative conclusions arrived at by the Enquiry Officer were bound to influence him, and in depriving the plaintiff of a copy of the report he was handicapped is not knowing what material was influencing the Inspector General of Prisons.
As is well known, the State of Bombay was reorganised into the above two States and the Bombay Reorganisation Act, 1960, contained various provisions for the apportionment of assets and liabilities between the two States.
Where, immediately before the appointed day, the State of Bombay is subject to any liability in respect of any actionable wrong other than breach of contract, that liability shall, (a) if the cause of action arose wholly within the territories which, as from that day, are the territories of the State of Maharashtra or the State of Gujarat, be a liability of that State; and (b) in any other case, be initially a liability of the State of Maharashtra but subject to such financial adjustment as may be agreed upon between the States of Maharashtra and Gujarat or, in default of such agreement, as the Central Government may by order direct." The learned counsel for the State of Maharashtra contends that the liability to pay arrears of pay was not a liability arising out of a contract but was a liability in respect of an actionable wrong other than a. breach of contract.
This Court in State of Bihar vs Abdul Majid(1) held "that the rule of English Law that a civil servant cannot maintain a suit against the Crown for the recovery of arrears of salary does not prevail in India and it has been negatived by the provisions of the statute law in India".
Mahajan, C.J., speaking for the Court, observed at p. 802: "As regard torts of its servants in exercise of sovereign powers, the company was not, and the Crown in (1) ; 923 India was not, liable unless the act has been ordered or ratified by it.
The authorities cited_go no further than to say that when there is an engagement between the Crown and a military or naval officer the Crown is always entitled to determine it at pleasure, and that no obligation contrary to that would be recognized or valid in law.
" Even Lord Goddard, C.J., in Terrell vs Secretary of State for the Colonies(3) observed that "the case (Reilly vs R.) (2) shows that there may be contractual rights existing before determination of a contract at will which are not inconsistent with a power to determine," and he stuck to this in Hambrook 's case(1) by stating : "Although it is clear that no action for wrongful dismissal can 'be brought by a discharged civil servant, I may be allowed to say that I adhere to the opinion which I expressed in Terrell vs Secretary of State for the Colonies(1) that he could recover his salary for the time during which he has served.
921 As observed by Gajendragadkar, J., as he then was, in Union of lndia vs H. C. Goel(1), "the enquiry report along with the evidence recorded constitute the material on which the Government has ultimately to act.
If the terms of the appointment definitely prescribe a term and expressly provide for a power to determine "for cause" it appears necessarily to follow that any implication of a power to dismiss at pleasure is excluded.
