In the assessment of income tax of the appellant for the assessment year 1952 53, relevant to the account year Samvat 2008, the assessee claimed a deduction of Rs. 2,68,385/ as bad debt due from the Bombay firm, incurred by that firm in the course of business transactions.
The tribunal rejected that application but pursuant to an order of the High Court under section 66(2), the tribunal submitted a statement of the case on the following question "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in law in holding that the debt of Rs. 2,68,385/ was not one incurred in the course of money lending business of the assessee." The High Court opined that the debt in question was not a bad and doubtful debt in the assessee 's money lending business nor a debt representing loss sustained in the other business.
On the other hand, the narrations in the entries, as they stand, the failure to adjust interest in the account of the Bombay firm at the stage at which it became a debtor in Samvat year 2007, the manner in which the partner of the appellant firm tried to explain the position in March, 1954 and the stand of the firm itself at all earlier stages support the case of the Department." "12.
It is also true that the tribunal after catalogueing the arguments advanced at the bar, has come to certain abrupt conclusions, but all the tame it cannot be denied that the findings reached by the tribunal are findings of fact and those findings are supported by the evidence on record.
reframed the question as follows "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Appellate Tribunal erred in disallowing a sum of Rs. 2,68,385/ written off by the assessee in their books of accounts as irrecoverable ?" By its order dated July 29, 1969 this Court called upon the Tribunal to submit a supplementary statement of case on the reframed question.
Having considered all the circumstances of the case, we are of the opinion that the sums in question were not sent to the Bombay firm as loans made in the ordinary course of the money lending business of the assessee nor in respect of any other business of the assessee.
The only facts in favour of the assessee are that incidental charges are debited to the Bombay firm in respect of some of the remittances and there is a flow of moneys to the Bombay firm up to 10 3 1952 when the last of the remittances was sent to it before the firm collapsed in about April 1952.
