During the pendency of the suit them Bombay Prevention of Ex communication Act 42 of 1949 was enacted and one of the issues raised in the suit was whether the order of ex communication was invalid.
Against the order deciding the issue, an appeal was preferred to this Court with certificate granted by the High Court under article 132 and article 133 of the Constitution, and it was held that the appeal was not maintainable since the decision on the issue did not finally dispose of the dispute between the parties.
This Court held (Bachawat & Mitter JJ., dissenting) that the order passed was a final order within the meaning of article 134(1) (c) since the controversy between the parties when the the complaint in respect of offences under sections 467 and 468 read with section 114 I.P. Code was disposed of by the order of dismissal and the proceeding regarding that question was finally decided It was observed that the finality of that order was not to be judged by co relating it with the controversy in the complaint, viz., when then the appellant had committed the offence charged ,against him therein.
The proceeding for filing a complaint under section 476 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was a self contained proceeding and was finally disposed of by the order directing the filing of a complain under section 205 read with section 114 I.P. Code.
Mukherjea, J., in interpreting the expression "judgment, decree or final order" in section 205 of the Government of India Act, 1935, in Mohammad Amin Brothers Ltd. and others vs Dominion India and others ( 3 ) observed: "The expression "final order" has been used in contradistinction to what is known as "interlocutory order" . .
Similarly in Druva Coal Company vs Benaras Bank(2) it was held that an order by the High Court reversing the order of the Court of First Instance granting a temporary injunction was not a final order within the meaning of section 109 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
In Srinivasa Prasad Singh vs Kesho Prasad Singh(1) an order deciding that circumstances had not been established such as would justify an order for stay of execution of a decree under appeal was not a 'final order" and was on that account not appealable to the judicial Committee.
The Court in that case was concerned merely with an order passed by the High Court which maintained the order of the Additional Sessions Judge that a complaint under section 205 read with section 114 I.P. Code could be filed against the appellant.
