" In his report the Income tax Officer does not set out any reason for coming to the conclusion that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
Further his report mentions : "Hence proper investigation regarding these loans is necessary In other words his conclusion is that there is a case for investigating as to the truth of the alleged transactions.
Before issuing a notice under section 148, the Income tax Officer must have either reasons to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of these assessee to, make a return under section 139 for any assessment year to the Income tax Officer or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year, income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year or alternatively not withstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned above on the part of the assessee, the Income tax Officer has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner, it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee 's omission to disclose fully and truly all material ' facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question, income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year; nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession, had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
Further the report submitted by him under section 151(2) does not mention any reason for coming to the conclusion that it is a fit case for the issue of a notice under section 148.
The important safeguards provided in sections 147 and 151 were lightly treated by the Income tax Officer as well as by the Commissioner.
All that he says is that from those communications "it appears that these persons (alleged creditors) are name lenders and the transactions are bogus".
We are of the opinion .that if only he had read the report carefully, he could never have 448 come to the conclusion on the material before him that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
Unless the requirements of clause (a) or (b) of section 147 are satisfied, the Income tax Officer has no jurisdiction to issue a notice under section 148.
To Question No. 8 in the report which reads "Whether the, Commissioner is satisfied that it is a case for the I issue of notice under section 148", he just noted the word "yes" and affixed his signatures thereunder.
No. A/P/ Misc.(5)D.I./63 64/5623 dated 13 8 65, forwarded to this office under C.I.T. Bihar and Orissa, Patna 's letter No. Inv.
