It is possible to conceive of the law providing that the balance sheet and profit and loss account shall be sent to the registrar even without the necessity of their being laid before the general body meeting of the company.
Where the words of the section are very clear it is unnecessary to consider whether it embodies any principle and whether that principle is consistent with the principle as embodied a certain other sections which are differently worded.
The Bombay High Court pointed out in Emperor vs Pioneer Clay & In dustrial Works(1) that the decision in Park vs Lawton(2) is based on section 36 (it is a mistake for section 26) of the English Act, which in its scheme and terms is entirely different from the section with which they (the Bombay High Court) were concerned, and that the section in the English Act is a composite one which lays down various requirements which are to be complied with by the company under its first four sub clauses and sub cl.
He pointed out that where no meeting has been held it was not possible to calculate the period of 30 days specified in that section and it would not be possible to give effect to the provisions of that section.
It may be that copies of the balance sheet so laid before the general body may have been forwarded under sub section (1) of Section 134 of the Old Companies Act or sub section (1) of section 220 of the Act but nonetheless if the requirements of sub section (2) of the respective sections have not been complied with even then, the persons concerned would be liable for punishment for that default.
Solicitor General who appeared for the State of Andhra Pradesh and the learned Solicitor General who appeared for the Advocate General of Andhra Pradesh fairly placed before this Court all the decisions for and against, which we have already referred to, and also placed before us all the relevant considerations.
Section 32 relates to the preparation of a list of members of the company and of persons who have ceased to be members as well as a summary, and also provides that it shall be completed within 21 days after the day of the first or only ordinary general meeting in the year.
Therefore the condition precedent or the essential prerequisite of the balance sheet and the profit and loss account being laid before the general meeting of the company not being fulfilled, the requirement of section 134 cannot be complied with.
It is interesting to note that it was argued in Park vs Lawton(2) that the fact that section 26 makes the offence a continuing one also shows that the obligation to file the list is independent of the holding of a general meeting.
If no balance sheet is laid before a general body, there can be no question of that balance sheet not being adopted nor of complying with the requirements of the Sub section (2) of Section 134 of the Old Companies Act or Section 220 of the Act as the case may be, while wilful omission to call a general body meeting and omit to lay the balance sheet and profit and loss account before it may expose the person responsible to punishment under other provisions of the Act, it certainly does not make him liable udder aforesaid provisions.
(supra) that a company or its directors in a prosecution under section 32 and section 133 of the 1913 Act could not in defence to such prosecution rely upon their own 415 failure to call the general body meeting, applies with equal force to a prosecution under section 134 of the Act.
The responsibility of sending three copies of the balance sheet and profit and loss account or the income and expenditure account, as the case may be, arises only after they have been laid before the company at the general meeting.
In that case any failure to do so would be punishable and the question whether a general body meeting had been held and the balance sheet and profit and loss account have been laid before it Will not arise.
