That definition reads: " "Industry" means any business, trade, undertaking, manufacture or calling of employers and includes any calling, service, employment, handicraft or industrial occupa tion or evocation of workmen.
(,) Mr. Pai further maintains that the ratio in R. K. Mittal 's case (supra) is not applicable to the instant case because the definition of " 'industry" in section 2(j) of the is far wider than that of "commercial establishment" in section 2(5) of the Act.
posed the question for decision thus : "In our view the linch pin of the definition of 'industry ' is to ascertain the systematic activity which the organization is discharging namely, whether it partakes the nature of a business or trade; or is an undertaking or manufacture or calling of employers".
An examination of the activities of the Federation showed that the Federation carried on systematic activities to assist its members and other businessmen and industrialists and even to non members as for instance in giving them the right to subscribe to their bulletin; in taking up their cases and solving their difficulties and in obtaining concessions and facilities from them from the Government.
The association was established for the objects of preparing and publishing under gratuitous professional control, reports of judicial decisions; of issuing digests and other publications relating to legal subjects.
Alternatively, it was contended that the case fell within part (b) of the definition of "commercial establishment" inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business, generally.
The very definition of "commercial establishment" indicates that the activity of a registered society, charitable or other trust will not take it out of the definition if the activity carried on by it amounts to a busi (1)[1971] 1, S.C.R. 177.
As regards the preliminary objection, it is true that before the High Court, it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
It takes up with the concerned authorities the specific difficulties experienced by the trade in the day today business and endeavours to attain for the traders and industrialists those material advantages by unified action which they may not be able to achieve in their individual capacity.
For all the foregoing reasons, particularly in view of the decision of this Court in R. K. Mittals case, (supra) we would hold that the pre premises of the Federation are a "commercial establishment" within the meaning of section 2(5) of the Act.
It is pointed out that it was wrongly assumed in Mittal 's case (supra) that the Federation, was systematically assisting not only its members but also other business men and industrialists even if they were not its members.
It was observed that: "the object of an Organisation may be charitable but nevertheless its activity may be commercial so as to satisfy the definition of an industry as explained and illustrated by this Court particularly in Safdarjang Hospital 's case.(1) We could therefore envisage an institution having its aims and objects charitable and yet its activities could bring it within the definition of industry".
It is true that in R. K. Mittal 's case (supra) it was held that these activities of the Federation are also in the nature of material services within the wider definition of 'industry '.
