The reference to Sakharam Maharaj Sansthan, wherever it appears, is only for the purpose of identification and commemoration of the hallowed saint who had admittedly founded the same.
When the origin of an endowment is obscure and no direct oral evidence is available, the Court will have to resolve the controversy about the character of the trust on documentary evidence, if any, the object and purpose for which the trust was created, the consistent manner in which the property has been dealt with or managed by those in charge, the manner in which the property has long been used by the public, the contribution of the public, to all intents and purposes, as a matter of right without the least interference or restriction from the temple authorities, to foster maintenance of the worship the accretion to the trust property by way of grants from the state of gifts from outsiders inconsistent with the private nature of the trust, the nature of devolution of the property, are all important elements in determination of the question whether a property is a private or a public religious endowment.
To sum up from the documentary and oral evidence produced, the following features are present in the present case: (1) The deity installed in the temple was intended by the Founder to be continually worshipped by an indeterminate multitude of the Hindu public: (2) In order to facilitate worship by the public, the founder also intended that regular Bhajan, Kirtan and worship shall be maintained and annual ceremonies and processions for pilgrimage shall be conducted by the saints in succession nominated by the reigning saint.
"Examples do occur where the founder may grant property to his spiritual preceptor and his disciples in succession with a view to maintain one particular spiritual family and for perpetuation of certain rights and ceremonies which are deemed to be conducive to the spiritual welfare of the founder and his family.
Are the members of the public entitled to an entry in the temple ? Are they entitled to take part in offering service and taking Darshan in the temple ? Are the members of the public entitled to take part in the festivals and ceremonies arranged in the temple ? Are their offerings accepted as a matter of right. The participation of the members of the public in the Darshan in the temple and in the daily acts of worship or in the celebrations of festivals occasions may be a very important factor to consider in deter mining the character of the temple".
Hence with the intention (object) that some service may be rendered by me for his Devasthan, I have given in gift out of love the below mentioned property valued at Rs. 600 (Six hundred) without taking any consideration from you, for the purpose of expenses of performing worship and offering Naivadya food".
In accordance with this theory, it has been held that when property is dedicated for the worship of a family idol, it is a private and not a public endowment, as the persons who are entitled to worship at the shrine of the deity can only be the members of the family, and that is an ascertained group of individuals.
It is very significant that in the last gift deed exhibit 38 of January 28, 1949, there is a most reverential reference to Shri 526 Sakharam Maharaj and his Devasthan when Sakharam Maharaj had departed in the past century.
This Court also distinguished the aforesaid Privy Council decision of Babu Bhagwan Din 's case (Supra) in Narayan Bhagwantrao Gosavi Balajiwale vs Gopal Vinayak Gosavi and others.
In Tilkayat Shri Govindlji Maharaj vs The State of Rajasthan and others this Court had to consider about a Hindu temple being private or public and observed as follows: "Where evidence in regard to the foundation of the temple is not clearly available sometimes, judicial decisions rely on certain other facts which are treated as relevant.
