It appears to us clear however that in providing for periodical payments to an insured worker in case of sickness (sickness benefit) or for medical treatment or attendance to him or the members of his family, the legislature did not intend to substitute any of these benefits for the workmen 's right to get leave on full pay on the ground of sickness.
" The matter came up again for consideration by this Court in Technological Institute of Textiles vs Its Workmen and others(2) and it was held as follows with specific reference to the first proviso to section 49 of the Act according to which a person qualified to claim sickness benefit is not enti tled to it for the initial waiting period of two days except in the case of continuous illness of the nature mentioned therein, "With regard to sick leave, the argument on behalf of the appellant was that benefits were granted by the , but .that is not a bar to the demand of the workmen for sick leave.
84 Insurance Act states that a person qualified to claim sickness benefit shall not be entitled to the benefit for an initial waiting period of two days except in the case of a spell of sickness following at an interval of not more than fifteen days, the spell of sickness for which benefit was last paid.
Even the Alembic Glass Industries Ltd. has allowed 6 days sick leave in a year to its employ ees in Bangalore and it is permissible to accumulate it upto 12 days in addition to the current year 's leave, under a settlement dated July 17, 1969, which is being continued even after the coming into force of the Act.
It appears, however, that it was not necessary, in the circumstances of the case, to award the benefit of the sick leave with retro spective effect from January 1, 1975, in the case of Jyoti Ltd. Baroda.
As has been stated, the Act came into force in the region concerned on December 14, 1969, and it has not been disputed before us that till then it was the practice in the glass industries to grant sick leave with wages for periods varying from 6 to 10 days.
The other question regarding the adequacy of the sick ness benefit under the provisions of the Act has been exam ined by the Tribunal with reference to the reports of the National Commission of Labour, 1969, the Labour Laws Review Committee and the Norms Committee of Gujarat State, which go to show that the benefit cannot b.e said to be adequate for, it works out to about half the average wage of a workman, and even that amount is not admissible for the first two days of sickness except in the case of a spell of sickness following, at an interval of not more than 15 days, the spell of sickness for which the sickness benefit was last paid.
In fact in the 85 case of the Alembic Glass Industries Ltd., Baroda, the Tribunal made an award for 7 days sick leave on full pay and dearness allowance in 1958, subject to the condition that the benefit would cease to apply when the benefits of the Act became available to the workmen.
Learned coun sel for the appellants have invited our attention to the case between the Textile Labour Association and the Ahmeda bad Millowner 's Association where the demand for sick leave was refused but, as the Tribunal has pointed out, the demand there was for a month 's leave every year in addition to 15 days casual leave and pay in lieu of privilege leave.
