The fiction created by Explanation 1 has to be given its due and full effect as the fiction created by section 18A(9) (b) of the Indian Income tax Act, 1922, was given by this Court in Commissioner of Income tax, Delhi vs section Teja Singh(1).
The section did not provide further that in the circumstances therein stated, a notice under section 22 shall be deemed to have been issued and the notice shall be deemed not to have been complied with.
In order to ascertain the share of heirs in the property of a deceased coparcener it is necessary in the very nature of things, and as the very first step, to ascertain the share, of the deceased in the coparcenary property.
In other words, the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property, one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
The Hindu Succession provides by section 14(1) that any property possessed by a female Hindu, whether acquired before or after the commencement of the Act, shall be held by her as a full owner thereof and not as a limited owner.
By restricting the operation of the fiction created by Explanation I in the manner suggested by the appellant, we shall be taking a retrograde step, putting back as it were the clock of social reform which has enabled the Hindu Woman to acquire an equal status with males in matters of property.
We see no justification for limiting the plaintiff 's share to 1/24th by ignoring the 1/4th share which she would have obtained had there been a partition during her husband 's life time between him and his two sons.
We think that in overlooking that 1/4th share, one unwittingly permits one 's imagination to boggle under the oppression of the reality that there was in fact no partition between the plaintiff 's husband and his sons.
Even assuming that two interpretations of Explanation I are reasonably possible, we must prefer that interpretation which will further the intention of the legislature and remedy the injustice from which the Hindu women have suffered over the years.
The Full Bench of the Bombay High ,Court in Sushilabai (supra) has considered exhaustively the various decisions bearing on the point and we endorse the analysis contained in the judgment of Kantawala C. J., who has spoken for the Bench.
To make the assumption at the initial stage for the limited purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased and then to ignore it for calculating the quantum of the share of the heirs is truly to permit one 's imagination to boggle.
We are happy to find that the view which we have taken above has also been taken by the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji (supra) in which Patel, J., very fairly, pronounced his own earlier judgment to the contrary in Shiramabai Bhimgonda vs Kalgonda (supra) as incorrect.
Recently, a Full Bench of that High Court in Sushilabai Ramachandra Kulkarni vs Narayanrao Gopalrao Deshpande & Ors.,(1) the Gujarat High Court in Vidyaben vs Jagdishchandra N. Bhatt(2) and the High Court of Orissa in Ananda vs Haribandhu(3) have taken the same view.
One must, therefore, imagine a state of affairs in which a little prior to Khandappa 's death, a partition of the coparcenary property was effected between him and other members of the coparcenary.
It was held in that case that the fiction that the failure to send an estimate of tax on income under section 18A(3) is to be deemed to be a failure to send a return, necessarily involves the fiction that a notice had been issued to the assessee under section 22 and that he had failed to comply with it.
These latter assumptions in regard to the issuance of the notice under section 22 and its non compliance bad to be, made for the purpose of giving due and full effect to the fiction created by section 18A(9) (b).
All the consequences which flow from a real partition have to be logically worked out, which means that the share of the heirs must be ascertained on the basis that they bad separated from one another and had received a share in the partition which had taken place during the life time of the deceased.
That Explanation compels the assumption of a fiction that in fact "a partition of the 'property had taken place", the point of time of the partition being the one immediately before the death of the person in whose property the heirs claim a share.
The next step, equally important though not equally easy to work out, is to find out the share which the deceased had in the coparcenary property because after all, the plaintiff has a 1/6th interest in that share.
Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fiction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mistakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death.
Though the plaintiff, not being a coparcener, was not entitled to demand partition yet, if a partition were to take place between her husband and his two sons, she would be entitled to receive a share equal to that of a son.
Khandappa would have therefore got a 1/4th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and, his sons Two things are thus clears : One, that in a partition of the coparcenary property Khandappa would have obtained a 1/4th share and 767 two, that the share of the plaintiff in the 1/4th share is 1/6th, that is to say, 1/24th.
Section 18A(9) (b) stopped at creating the fiction that when a person fails to send an estimate of tax on his income under section 18A(3) he shall be deemed to have failed to furnish a return of his income.
The assumption which the statute requires to be made that a partition had in fact taken place must permeate the entire process of ascertainment of the ultimate share of the heirs, through all its stages.
The inevitable corollary of this position is that the heir will get his or her share in the interest which the deceased bad in the coparcenary property at the time of his death, in addition to the share which he or she received or must be deemed to have received in the notional partition.
In an important aspect, the case before us is stronger in the matter of working out the fiction because in Teja Singh 's case, a missing step had to be supplied which was not provided for by section 18A(9) If b), namely, the issuance of a notice under section 22 and the failure to comply with that notice.
In our case it is not necessary, for the purposes of working out the fiction, to assume and supply a missing link which is really what was meant by Lord Asquith in his famous passage in East End Dwellings Co. Ltd. vs Finsbury Borough Council.(1) He said if you are bidden to treat an imaginary state of affairs as real, you must also imagine as real the consequences and (1) [1959] Stipp.
1 S.C.R. 394 (2) 768 incidents which, if the putative state of affairs had in fact existed, must inevitably have flowed from or accompanied it; and if the statute says that you must imagine a certain state of affairs, it cannot be interpreted to mean that having done so, you must cause or permit your imagination to boggle when it comes to the inevitable corollaries of that state of affairs.
The interpretation which we are placing upon the provisions of section 6, its proviso and explanation I thereto will further the legislative intent in regard to the enlargement of the share of female heirs, qualitatively and quantitatively.
Explanation 1 to section 6 resorts to the simple expedient, undoubtedly fictional, that the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener "shall be deemed to be" the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of that property had taken place immediately before his death.
(1) A.I.R. 1975 (Bombay) 257.
(2) A.I.R. 1974 Guj.
So far there is no difficulty.
1937, speaking broadly, conferred upon the Hindu widow the right to a share in the joint family property as also a right to demand partition like any male member of the family.
