The magistrate 's order proceeds on neglect to maintain; the sessions judge has spoken nothing to the contrary; and The High Court has not spoken at all.
In this generous jurisdiction, a broader perception and appreciation of the facts and their bearing must govern the verdict not chopping little logic or tinkering with burden of proof.
The consent decree of 1962 resolved all disputes and settled all claims then available But here is a new statutory right created as a projection of public policy by the Code of 1973, which could not have been in the contemplation of the parties when in 1962, they entered into a contract to adjust their then mutual rights.
The payment of illusory amounts by way of customary or personal law requirement will be considered in the reduction of maintenance rate but cannot annihilate that rate unless it is a reasonable substitute.
If the first payment by way of mehar or ordained by custom has a reasonable relation to the object and is a capitalised substitute for the order under section 125 not mathematically but fairly then section 127(3) (b) subserves the goal and relieves; the obligor, not pro tanto but wholly.
The purpose of the payment 'under any customary or personal law ' must be to obviate destitution of the divorcee and to provide her with wherewithal to maintain herself.
Protection against moral and material abandonment manifest in article 39 is part of social and economic justice, specificated in article 38, fulfilment of which is fundamental to the governance of the country (Art.37).
No construction which leads to frustration of the statutory project can secure validation if the court is to pay true homage to the Constitution.
The compulsive conclusion from a divorce by a husband and his provision of a separate residence as evidenced by the consent decree fills the bill.
Where the husband, by customary payment at the time of divorce, has adequately provided for the divorce, a subsequent series of recurrent does is 81 contra indicated and the husband liberated.
The proposition, therefore, is that no husband can claim under section 127(3)(b) absolution from this obligation under section 125 towards a divorced wife except on proof of payment of a sum stipulated by customary or personal law whose quantum is more or less sufficient to do duty for maintenance allowance.
The whole scheme of section 127(3) (b) is manifestly to recognise the substitute maintenance arrangement by lump sum payment organised by the custom of the community or the personal law of the parties.
But what was the amount of mehar ? Rs. 5000/ , interest from which could not keep the woman 's body and soul together for a day, even in that city where 40% of the population are reported to live on pavements, unless she was ready to sell her body and give up her soul ? The point must be clearly under stood that the scheme of the complex of provisions in Chapter IX has a social purpose.
Surely, Parliament, in keeping with article 15(3) and deliberate by design, made a special provision to help women in distress cast away by divorce.
Payment of mehar money, as a customary discharge, is within the cognisance of that provision.
If law has nexus with life this argument is still born.
His plea is his right to ignore.
From this coign of vantage we must view the printed text of the particular Code.
So the basic condition of neglect to maintain is satisfied.
The legal sanctity of the payment is certified by the fulfilment of the social obligation, not by a ritual exercise rooted in custom.
The contractual limb of the contention must easily fail.
The only just construction of the section is that Parliament intended divorcees should not derive a double benefit.
Law is dynamic and its meaning cannot he pedantic but purposeful.
This traumatic horror animates the amplitude of s.127.
There must be a rational relation between the sum so paid and its potential as provision for maintenance.
No settlement of claims which does not have the special statutory right of the divorcee under section 125 can operate to negate that claim.
The keynote thought is adequacy of payment which will take reasonable care of her maintenance.
80 section 125 requires, as a sine qua non for its application, neglect by husband or father.
The next submission is that the absence of mutual consent to live separately must be made out if the hurdle of section 125(4) is to be over come.
Moreover, the husband has not examined himself to prove that he has been giving allowances to the divorced wife.
This is the teleological A interpretation, the sociological decoding of the text of s.127.
Obviously, he has no case of non neglect.
If any in statutory interpretation belongs to the ill used wife and the derelict divorcee.
We see hardly any force in this plea.
Ill used wives and desparate divorcees shall not be driven to material and moral dereliction to seek sanctuary in the streets.
Nor can s.127 rescue the respondent from his obligation.
This social perspective granted, the resolution of all the disputes projected is easy.
To interpret otherwise is to stultify the project.
His case, on the contrary, is that she has forfeited her claim because of divorce and the consent decree.
Do divorcees have to 1) prove mutual consent to live apart? Divorce painfully implies that the husband orders her out of the conjugal home.
The last defence, based on mehar payment, merits more serious attention.
The conclusion that we therefore reach is that the appeal should be allowed and it is hereby allowed, and the order of the trial court restored.
P.B.R. Appeal allowed.
