The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P. Ws. 1, 2 and 3 were of a minor character and that they have been unduly magnified by the learned Sessions Judge.
P.W. 3, an old woman of 69 years, stated in her evidence that she saw the accused who was sitting by the side of the deceased on the cot make a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased and that the deceased cried out 'Amma. ' In cross examination she stated that she did not remember if she had told the Police that the accused made a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
However, the 'formulae ' of "substantial and compelling reasons", "good and sufficiently cogent reasons" and "strong reasons" and the search for them were abandoned as a result of the pronouncement of this Court in Sanwat Singh & Ors.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan, this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion, bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup 's case.
If the evidence is so strong against a man as to leave only a remote possibility in his favour, which can be dismissed with the sentence 'of course it is possible but not in the least probable ' the case is proved beyond reasonable doubt, but nothing short of that will suffice".
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 p.m. was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P. 15 the wound certificate given by P.W. 13 the Medical officer in respect of the injuries which he found on the person of the accused.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing, it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
The High Court also concluded from the medical evidence that it was more probable that the deceased was stabbed when she was lying down.
The discrepancies were in regard to which of them woke up first, where was the lantern and which of the neighbours came first to the scene on hearing their cries.
R. 369 back to the principles enunciated by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup vs Emperor(1) and re affirmed those principles.
Where the Trial Court allows itself to be beset with fanciful doubts, rejects creditworthy evidence for slender reasons and takes a view of the evidence which is but barely possible, it is the obvious duty of the High Court to interfere in the interest of justice, lest the administration of justice be brought to ridicule.
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions(5) "Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
Accepting the evidence of P. Ws. 1 to 3 which was corroborated by the evidence of P. Ws. 4 and 5 who came to the scene soon afterwards, the High Court convicted the accused under Section 302 and sentenced him as aforesaid.
He urged that the knife was not seized by the Police under any seizure Memo nor was the knife sent to any finger print expert.
We do not think that we will be justified in rejecting the evidence of all the prosecution witnesses on the basis of this statement of P. W. 3.
The High Court was also right in holding that the medical evidence supported the prosecution version and not the defence version.
It stems out of the fundamental principle, of our criminal jurisprudence that the accused is entitled to the benefit of any reasonable doubt.
If the preponderance of probability is all one way, a bare possibility of another view will not entitle the accused to claim the benefit of any doubt.
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence, the prosecution tried to make P. W. 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
The Inspector of Police P. W. 15, however, stated that P. W. 3 did not state before him that she saw the accused making a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
