The statement then goes on to indicate that if a flat increase of Rs. 75/ per month were given to individual workmen of all categories the total increase would be Rs. 5,78,220/ .
The statement afforded an indication merely of what the additional financial load would be if a flat increase was given to the individual workman on the alternative basis set forth therein.
In the result, Civil Appeal No. 2299 of 1979 is allowed in part insofar that the order dated 22nd December, 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal, Maharashtra Bombay is quashed to the extent that it modifies the original award dated 20th December, 1978, and the corrigendum made consequent thereto is also quashed.
In the said award, Your Honour has observed, at the end of Para 22, 'In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay, I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance '.
Thereafter the Tribunal made an order on the same day in the following terms: "There can be no doubt that a flat increase of Rs. 150/ to each of the employees in the category of Draftsmen and 181 of Rs. 100/ to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
Now, if, without any flat or ad hoc increase of salary, the workmen were to be fitted into the revised scales of pay, it would obviously result in serious anomalous situations.
Immediately after the award was pronounced, while the iron was still hot as it were, the employees apparently realised that the employer might take advantage of the circumstance that it was not clearly mentioned in the award that all the employees were to get additional pay of Rs. 150/ and Rs. 100/ respectively and might contend that the Tribunal had only revised the wage scales by increasing the salary on entry into the service and res 184 tructuring the scale of pay and never granted any ad hoc increase of salary to all employees.
The application before the Tribunal was filed under Rule 31 of the Bombay Industrial Disputes Rules 1957, which is as follows: "A Board, Court, Labour Court, Tribunal or Arbitrator may, at any time, suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned, may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings, report, award or as the case may be, decision".
The omission of the words to each employee first after the figure Rs. 150/ and again after the figure Rs. 100/ was clearly an accidental slip or omission which the Tribunal was entitled to correct.
It declared that the cumulative effect of an improved wage structure together with dearness allowance operating on a slab system would throw an impossible burden of about Rs. 1 crore on the financial capacity of the appellant.
The Tribunal, in the present case, considered the matter and found it sufficient and in accord with justice that the wage scales should be restructured with suitable increments provided therein.
Finally at the end of paragraph 21 the Tribunal said : In view of this position, the Company can easily bear some burden that might fall as a result of the upward revision of the wage scales.
Finally, on the basis that the individual Draughtsman would be given an increase of Rs. 75/ per month and the individual workmen of other categories Rs. 50/ per month, the additional load was calculated at Rs. 4,63,092/ .
However, we do not agree with our learned brother that Civil Appeal No. 2299 of 1979 should be allowed in so far as it relates to the order dated December 22, 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal which purports to correct the award dated December 20, 1978.
On the basis that a sum of Rs. 150/ per month was added to the pay of each Draughtsman and a sum of Rs. 100/ was added to the pay of every other workman, who belonged to the Union staff, the financial load would increase to Rs. 9,22,032/ .
It seems that the Tribunal was betrayed by a curious confusion in accepting the plea of the Union that a flat increase to the pay of each workman was intended in the original wage and, consequently, it fell into the error of amending the award.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz. to grant flat increase of Rs. 150/ and of Rs. 100/ to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted (vide exhibit C 51).
Likewise, if a flat increase of Rs. 100/ was given to individual workmen of all categories, including Draughtsmen, the increased financial load would total Rs. 7,64,256/ .
It is needless to recapitulate all the basic facts which have been set out in the judgment of Pathak, J. The Award of the Industrial Tribunal was made on December 20, 1978.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz. to grant flat increase of Rs. 150/ and of Rs. 100/ to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted (vide exhibit C 51).
Even when considering the range of permissible retrospectivity the Tribunal stated in the award: "In view of the revision of the wage scales, there would be consequent increase in the dearness allowance and the house rent allowance.
None of the alternatives was actually adopted by the Tribunal, because when the award was made the Tribunal proceeded instead to restructure the wage scales by the addition of Rs. 150/ in the case of the category of Draughtsmen and Rs. 100/ in the case of other categories to the initial pay in the wage scales pertaining to those categories.
Having regard to the not inconsiderable improvement in the level of the basic wage, it observed that there would be a consequent increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
In view of the increase so secured, the Tribunal rejected the suggestion that a slab system should be introduced in the dearness allowance or that there should be any other modification of the principle on which dearness allowance was being presently granted.
Implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
It was clearly so intended by the Tribunal as is evident from the reference to "flat increase of Rs. 150/ in the category of Draftsmen and Rs. 100/ in the case of the other categories".
Reliance was placed on The Hindustan Times Ltd., New Delhi vs Their Workmen where it was observed by this Court that dearness allowance should not 179 remain fixed at any figure but should be on a sliding scale in order to neutralise a portion of the increase in the cost of living.
In the present case the Industrial Tribunal on a consideration of the material placed before it came to the conclusion that the company was in an undoubted position to bear the additional financial burden.
After fixing the salary of the employees in the scales as above, the employees should be given increments in the new scales as noted below: (i) Employees who have completed 5 years or more as on 1st January, 1976, 3 increments.
Since there was to be a flat increase of Rs. 150/ and Rs. 100/ in the case of draftsmen and other workmen respectively, the revised wage scale had necessarily to commence with figures Rs. 150/ and Rs. 100/ above the existing wage scales.
In its order of 22nd December, 1978, the Tribunal has referred to the statement (Exhibit C 51) filed by the appellant when called upon to indicate the increased financial burden apprehended by it.
On December 22, 1978 that is to say, two days after the Award was made and when everything must have been fresh to the minds of the Tribunal, the respective parties and their Advocates, the employees Union made an application under Rule 31 of the Industrial Disputes (Bombay) Rules, 1957 seeking a correction of an error, which it was claimed, had crept into the Award.
The endorsement made on the application by the Advocate for the company does not indicate that the company had any objection to the award being corrected as sought by the employees union.
Even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the Tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
If the pay of an employee does not coincide with any step in the revised pay scale, and falls between two steps in the reclassified pay scales, the basic pay of that employee shall be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
CHINNAPPA REDDY, J. We have had the advantage of perusing the judgment prepared by our learned brother Pathak, J. we agree with 180 him that Civil Appeal No. 2300 of 1979 should be dismissed.
The copy of the letter dated July 23, 1973, alongwith the Annexures from the Company to the Director General, Posts & Telegraphs, Delhi (exhibit C 27) indicates the important projects the Company was handling in India and abroad, and the amount of foreign exchange earned and repatriated.
While workmen raising industrial disputes for revision of wage scales are certainly minded about their future prospects in the matter of wages, they, surely would be more concerned with the immediate benefits according to them That was why the Industrial Tribunal thought that an all round flat increase of Rs. 150/ in the case of Draftsmen and Rs. 100/ in the case of other workmen was called for.
These statements cannot be regarded as evidence 178 that the appellant was cognizant of the intention of the Tribunal to provide a flat increase to the pay of each workman.
