Mahant Shivshankar Yati employed the inherited money in the purchase of two properties in village Amauli in 1921 paying Rs 30,000 for a full interest in one property and Rs. 10,000 for a moiety share in the other.
This Court in Gurcharan Prasad vs Krishnanand (2) affirmed that Nihang Dashnami Sanyasis could pursue money lending business and could own property as absolute owners, and enjoy them as their personal property.
663 There is reason to believe that Mohant Shivbaran Yati, Mohant Shivpher Yati and Mahant Shivshankar Yati were not celibates and had been grihasthas, and were entitled to possess, enjoy and acquire personal property.
It was observed in Sushil Chandra Sen vs Gobind Chandra Das(l) that Dashnami sanyasis mixed freely in the business world and carried on trade and often accumulated property.
That certain sects of sanyasis could acquire personal property was accepted by that eminent Judge, Dr. B.K. Mukherjee, in his "Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trusts",(a) where he says: "A Mohunt, and for the matter of that, any other Sanyasi can acquire personal property of his own.
It is urged for the appellants that where a nucleus of dedicated property exists, the acquisition of additional property should be attributed to the application of the nucleus and must, therefore, be regarded as property belonging to the Math or the deity.
It is pointed out before us that in assessment proceedings under the U. P. Agriculture Income Tax Act 1948, the Amauli properties were described by Mahant Shivshankar Yati as properties of the Math and therefore a claim to exemption from the levy was made.
The High Court has found that the claim was not accepted by the assessing authority, and that the position in regard to those properties taken in the assessment proceedings was adopted by the Mahant only for the purpose of escaping personal liability to tax.
Strictly speaking, there is no presumption either one way or the other, and in each case the burden is upon the plaintiff to establish that the properties in respect of which he is asking for possession are properties to the possession of which he is entitled in the right in which he sues".
Small parcels of these properties were transferred by Mahant Shivshankar Yati from time to time, and none of those transfers was challenged by the plaintiffs in the present suit.
The evidence discloses that Mahant Shivpher Yati was held in high regard on account of his personal learning and attainments, and has a large number of chelas including many affluent persons from whom he received personal bhents or pranamis of large amounts of money.
In our judgment, the High Court is right in the view that the Amauli properties constitute the personal property of Uma Shankar Yati and do not form part of the properties of the Math Sauna or of the deity, Sri Thakur, Gokarneshwar Mahadeoji.
All the facts and circumstances must be taken into consideration and on a balancing of the entire evidence it has to be determined whether the property can be said to belong to the Math or deity or is the personal property of the Mahant, the burden of proof resting on the party who makes the claim.
