They provide: Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, as and from the financial year 1976 77, there shall be charged, levied and paid for each financial year a tax on the lands or buildings or both. .at the rate specified in the table below:" Nothing further is required to be done by the Municipality or the Municipal Corporation in order to impose the property tax and therefore the procedure preliminary to the imposition of other taxes which is prescribed by sections 129 and 133 of the two Acts, can 15 have no application to the imposition of the property tax.
This position is made clear, out of abundant caution, by clause (4) of section 133 of the Municipal Corporation Act, which provides that nothing contained in section 133 shall apply to the tax mentioned in clause (a) of sub section (1) of section 132, which shall be charged and levied in accordance with section 135.
But in order to 20 judge whether, on that account, the State legislature loses its competence to pass the Act of 1973, it is necessary to have regard to the object and purpose of that Act and to the relevant provisions thereof, under which Special Area Development Authorities are given the power to tax lands and buildings within their jurisdiction.
Section 68 defines the functions of the Special Area Development Authority, one of which, as prescribed by clause (v), is to provide the municipal services as specified in sections 123 and 124 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961.
Surely, the functions, powers and duties of Municipalities do not become an occupied field by reason of the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957.
Shri Dharmadhikari, who appears on behalf of the respondents, has drawn our attention to the judgment of a Constitution Bench of this Court in H.R.S. Murthy vs Collector of Chittoor and Another, which provides a complete answer to the Attorney General 's contention.
The proceeds of the land cess were required to be credited to the District fund which had to be used for everything necessary for or conducive to the safety, health, convenience or education of the inhabitants or the amenities of local area concerned.
The power conferred by the State Legislature on Special Area Development Authorities to impose the property tax on lands and buildings is therefore not in conflict with the power conferred by the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act on the Union Government to regulate and develop the Coal mines so as to ensure rational and scientific utilisation of coal resources.
The Haryana State Legislature passed the Haryana Minerals (Vesting of Rights) Act, 1973, under which two notifications were issued for acquisition of right to saltpeter, a minor mineral, and for auctioning certain saltpeter bearing areas.
By the aforesaid declaration and the enactment of section 15, the whole of the field relating to minor minerals had come within the jurisdiction of Parliament and no scope was left for the enactment of the second proviso to section 10 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act.
" In Heavy Engineering Mazdoor Union vs The State of Bihar & Ors., the Heavy Engineering Corporation Limited was incorporated under the and its entire share capital was contributed by the Central Government.
On the question as to whether the Corporation carried on an industry under the authority of the Central Government within the meaning of section 2(a) of the , it was held by this Court that an incorporated company has a separate existence and the law recognises it as a juristic person, separate and distinct from its members.
Gajendragadkar, C. J., while speaking for the Court, referred to the judgment of Lord Denning in Tamlin vs Hansaford in which the learned Judge observed: "In the eye of the law, the corporation is its own master and is answerable as fully as any other person or corporation.
In Pennington 's Company Law, 4th Edition, pages 50 51, it is stated that there are only two decided cases where the court has disregarded the separate legal entity of a company and that was done because the company was formed or used to facilitate the evasion of legal obligations.
This Court held that the pith and substance of the amended section 10(2) fell within Entry 23 although it incidentally touched land and that, therefore, the amendment was subject to the overriding power of Parliament as declared in section 15 of the .
The learned author, after referring to English and American decisions, has summed up the position in the words of an American Judge, Sanborn, J. to the effect that as a general rule, a corporation will be looked upon as a legal entity and an exception can be made "when the notion of legal entity is used to defeat public convenience, justify wrong, protect fraud, or defend crime", in which case, "the law will regard the corporation as an association of persons".
Justice Pathak and Justice Koshal, who gave a separate judgment concurring with the conclusion of the majority, preferred to rest their decision on the circumstance that the impugned legislation fell within Entry 42, List III 'Acquisition and requisition of property ' and was therefore within the competence of the State Legislature.
This Court, while rejecting the Corporation 's claim, held that though it was wholly controlled by the State Government it had a separate entity and its income was not the income of the State Government.
Basing himself on that consideration the Attorney General argues: (1) By virtue of the declaration contained in section 2 of Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, the legislative field covered by Entry 23, 19 List II passed on the Parliament by virtue of Entry 54, List I. (2) The Parliament enacted the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act, 1973 for acquisition of coal mines with a view to reorganising and reconstructing such coal mines so as to ensure the rational, coordinated and scientific development and utilisation of coal resources as best to subserve the common good.
In that case, the Andhra Pradesh Road 17 Transport Corporation claimed exemption from taxation under article 289 of the Constitution by which, the property and income of a State is exempt from union taxation.
(4) The taxing power of the State legislature must be construed as limited in its scope so as not to come in conflict with the power and function of the Union to regulate and develop the mines as envisaged by the Nationalisation Act.
It is true that on account of the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, the legislative field covered by Entry 23 of List II will pass on to Parliament by virtue of Entry 54, List I.
one of which is to provide for the development and administration of Special Areas through Special Area Development Authorities, Section 64 of the Act of 1973, which provides for the constitution of the special areas, lays down by sub section (4) that: Notwithstanding anything contained in the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956, the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961, or the Madhya Pradesh Panchayats Act, 1962, the Municipal Corporation, Municipal Council, Notified Area Committee or a Panchayat, as the case may be, shall, in relation to the special area and as from the date the Special Area Development Authority undertakes the functions under clause (v) or clause (vi) of section 68 cease to exercise the powers and perform the function and duties which the Special Area Development Authority is competent to exercise and perform under the Act of 1973.
It was held by this Court that the Haryana Act was not in any way repugnant to the provisions of the Act of 1957 made by Parliament and that the ownership rights could be validly acquired by the State Government under the State Act.
The mere fact that the entire share capital of the respondent company was contributed by the Central Government and the fact that all its shares were held by the President and certain officers of the Central Government did not make any difference to that position.
We would, however, like to draw attention to the Explanation to section 147 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act which says that though the property tax has to be paid by the owner of the land or building, as the case may be, for the purposes of that section a tenant of land or building or both, who holds the same under a lease for an agreed period with a convenant for its renewal thereafter, shall be deemed to be the owner thereof.
Apart from the fact that there is no data before us showing that the property tax constitutes an impediment in the achievement of the goals of the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act, the provisions of the M.P. Act of 1973, under which Special Areas and Special Area Development Authorities are constituted afford an effective answer to the Attorney General 's contention.
Entry 54 of List I relates to "Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest".
The paramount purpose behind the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Develop 22 ment) Act, 1957 is not in any manner defeated by the legitimate exercise of taxing power under section 69(d) of the Act of 1973.
In that case, the Bihar Government demanded dead rent, royalty and surface rent from the appellant contrary to the terms of his lease on the strength of the amended section 10(2) of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, and the amended Rule 20 of the Bihar Rules.
The majority, speaking through one of us, Desai J., held that the legislative power of the State under Entry 24, List II, was eroded only to the extent to which control was assumed by the Union Government pursuant to the declaration made by the Parliament in respect of a declared industry and that the field occupied by such enactment was the measure of the erosion of the legislative competence of the State legislature.
It was contended on behalf of 23 the sugar undertakings that since sugar is a declared industry under the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, Parliament alone was competent to pass a law on the subject and the State Legislature had no competence to pass the impugned Act by reason of Entry 52, List I read with Entry 24, List II.
Relying on these provisions, it is contended by the Attorney General that since the appellant companies are wholly owned by the Government of India, the lands 16 and buildings owned by the companies cannot be subjected to property tax.
The obligation which the statute places upon it is to impose tax on lands where there are lands only and they can be taxed, on buildings where buildings alone can be brought to tax and on both lands and buildings where lands are built upon and both can be brought to tax.
Though, therefore, on account of that declaration, the legislative field covered by Entry 23, List II may pass on to the Parliament by virtue of Entry 54, List I, the competence of the State Government to enact laws for municipal administration will remain unaffected by that declaration.
The reasoning adopted in this decision shows that it is not correct to say that the property tax provided for in the Act of 1973 is beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature; that tax has nothing to do with the development of mines.
That the declaration in section 2 of the does not result in invalidation of every State legislation relating to mines and minerals is demonstrated effectively by the decision in State of Haryana & Anr.
The third contention of the Attorney General flows from the provisions of article 285(1) of the Constitution which says that the property of the Union shall, save in so far as Parliament may by law otherwise provide, be exempt from all taxes imposed by a State or by any authority within a State.
Section 127A(2) of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act and section 136 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act also provide that the property tax shall not be leviable, inter alia, on "buildings and lands owned by or vesting in the Union Government".
Under section 5(1) of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 26 of 1973, which applies in the instant case, the right title and interest of a nationalised coal mine vest, by direction of the Central Government, in the Government company.
The learned Attorney General resisted the taxation on the lands by contending that they belong to the Madhya Pradesh State Government and were taken on lease for a period of 30 years by the appellant companies.
(3) Under section 5 of the Nationalisation Act, the acquired properties were vested in a Government Company in order to carry out more conveniently the object of that Act, and for that purpose, the properties were freed from all encumbrances by section 6 of the Act.
Since the Central Act was primarily concerned with the development and regulation of declared industries and not with the ownership of industrial undertakings, it was held that the State legislature had the competence to enact the impugned law.
The short answer to this contention is that even though the entire share capital of the appellant companies has been subscribed by the Government of India, it cannot be predicated that the companies themselves are owned by the Government of India.
