That according to the provisions of the CHS Rules, all posts of Lecturers, Assistant Professors and Associated Professors were required to be filled through the UPSC before the Rules came to be amended with effect from 18 9 1971.
It would be convenient to re produce the note in its entirety and it reads : TEACHING POSTS Specialists ' Grade (new Specialist Grade II) Lecturers All vacancies in this Grade are filled by direct recruitment through the UPSC at the level of Lecturers in the scale of pay of Rs. 1100 1800 plus NPA at graded rates.
The officers promoted to the posts of Assistant Professor and Associate Professor are allowed a special pay of Rs. 100/ p.m. and Rs. 200/ p.m. respectively In case no departmental officer is available for promotion to the posts of Assistant/Associate Professor, such vacancy is filled by direct recruitment through the U.P.S.C. Composite Supertime Grade II (Revised Specialist Grade I) Professor On the recommendation of the Third Pay Commission, the Composite Supertime Grade II has been bifurcated into Specialist Grade I (Rs. 1800 2250) and Supertime Grade II revised (Rs. 1500 2000).
It is necessary to emphasise that the recruitment rules nowhere provide that the teaching experience gained by a Specialist in a teaching hospital in the capacity of an Associate Professor (ex officio) shall not count towards the requisite teaching experience.
Normally, a Professor or an Additional Professor in a medical college or teaching institution can be appointed by direct recruitment from amongst persons holding the post of Associate Professor or Assistant Professor in the concerned speciality in a medical college or a teaching institution having at least six years ' teaching experience out of 12 years ' standing in the Grade through the Union Public Service Commission.
That being so, the appellant who admittedly is a highly qualified person and has the requisite teaching experience as Radiologist cum Associate Professor of Radiologist (ex officio) is clearly eligible for appointment as Professor of Radiotherapy under r. 8 (2).
As a necessary consequence, we direct the Union Public Service Commission to re advertize the post of Professor of Radiology in Malulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi which had fallen vacant during the pendency of the appeal and call the appellant for an interview for being considered appointment to that post.
These persons who are participating in the teaching programme have been recognised by the University of Delhi as Professors/Readers/Lecturers/Teachers without specific teaching designation on the condition that such designations will be valid "for the period till such time the Safdarjang Hospital continues to impart instructions in clinical subjects to the under graduate students of University College of Medical Sciences and the persons continue to take part in the said teaching".
In the vacancy caused thereby, Dr. Shinghal who was Specialist in Ophthalmology attached to the Willindon Hospital, was offered the post of Chief Opthalmologist cum Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, Medical College, Simla.
In contradistinction, the teaching hospitals under the Central Health 36 Service are : (1) Irwin Hospital, New Delhi and (2) G. B. Pant Hospital, New Delhi which are both associate hospitals of Maulana Azad Medical College.
An Associate Professor in the medical college or a teaching institution can only be promoted from amongst persons holding the post of Assistant Professor having at least five year 's teaching experience in the concerned speciality by the Departmental Promotion Committee.
(Qualifications relaxable at Commissions 's discretion in the case of candidates otherwise well qualified.)" The contention on behalf of the respondents is that the appellant could not be considered for appointment to the post of Associate Professor of Radiotherapy in Maulana Azad Medical College because the teaching experience gained by him while holding the post of Radiologist cum Associate Professor of Radiology (ex officio) in the Irwin Hospital since October 9, 1964 cannot be taken into consideration.
However, the University College of Medical Sciences which is under the administrative control of the University of Delhi has been utilising the services of the Medical officers of the CHS working in the Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi, for clinical teaching of the students of the University College of Medical Sciences.
The Union Public Service Commission while advertising the post of Professor Radiotherapy which has fallen vacant, must, as it rightly did, invite the appellant for an interview for being considered for appointment to that post.
(2) the vacancies in the post of Associate Professor and Assistant Professor in the medical colleges and teaching institutions shall be filled by the appointment of Assistant Professors and Lecturer respectively in the Specialists ' Grade, possessing the qualifications and experience prescribed in Annexure I to the Second Schedule for the respective post, on the recommendation of a Departmental Promotion Committee.
As the statutory rules do not provide that the teaching experience gained in an ex officio capacity shall not count towards the requisite teaching experience, the teaching experience gained by the appellant while holding the post of Radiologist cum Associate Professor of Radiology (ex officio) in the Irwin Hospital cannot be ignored in determining his eligibility for appointment as Professor or Radiology in Maulana Azad Medical College.
That is to say, there is certain amount of flexibility and it cannot be that the appellant who is a Radiologist in the Maulana Azad Medical College which is a post belonging to Specialists Grade II, cannot be appointed by direct recruitment as Professor of Radiotherapy under r. 8 (2).
It is said that the President of India was pleased to direct that the conferral of such teaching designations would not entitle the Specialists to claim seniority or eligibility for promotion merely by virtue of these honorary designations, nor would it entitle the incumbent any special benefit with regard to any teaching 42 allowance which may be given to the teachers in a medical college.
