Being aggrieved by his absorption on a lower post, he filed a writ petition in the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, asking that he should be absorbed as a Head Clerk.
Even assuming for the purposes of argument that the right to be considered for promotion is a term and condition of service, what is relevant for our purpose is not whether the appellant was entitled to be considered for promotion but, whether the Panchayat Samiti had the right to appoint him to the post of Head Clerk on the date on which it purported to do so.
The fact that the appellant was promoted as a Head Clerk on an ad hoc basis in January 1974, or the further fact that he was appointed as a Head Clerk on April 1, 1975, cannot improve his position for the simple reason that these appointments were made after June 13, 1973, being the date on which the Panchayat Samiti lost its power to make appointments to.
The appointment of the appellant to the post of a Head Clerk being without the authority of law, the Government was not bound to absorb him in the post of a Head Clerk.
But, as a result of the deletion of section 33 of the Act by the Amending Act of 1973, the Panchayat Samiti lost its power to make appointments to the Panchayat.
It could not, therefore, have appointed the appellant as a Head Clerk, as it purported to do, in January 1974 on an ad hoc basis or in April 1975 on a regular basis.
Since the appellant, according to the terms and conditions of his service with the Panchayat, was entitled to be considered for promotion to the post of a Head Clerk, his appointment as a Head Clerk prior to his absorption in Government service had to be recognised and protected, despite the fact that such appointment was made after June 13, 1973 when the Amending Act came into force.
737 It is urged by Shri Jain who appears on behalf of the appellant that by reason of section 14(4) of the Amending Act, the appellant was entitled to continue in the service of the Panchayat on the same terms and conditions on which he was employed by the Panchayat Samiti until he was absorbed in Government service.
Clearly, it had fortified that right on June 13, 1973.
The writ petition having been dismissed by the High Court, the appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
the Panchayat.
There is no substance in this contention.
The appellant was appointed as a clerk by the Loharu Panchayat Samiti in 1963, long before the Amending Act came into force on June 13, 1973.
He was appointed lawfully to the post of a Clerk and that is the post in which the Government has absorbed him.
S.R. Appeal dismissed.
He was, therefore, entitled to be absorbed in Government service as a clerk in any event.
For these reasons, the appeal fails and is dismissed.
There will be no order as to costs.
