Moreover against his order under that section a revision lies to Central Government which implies that he will have to make judicious use of his power or discretion and any improper exercise is liable to be corrected by a higher authority.
It does not impose any blanket or 956 absolute prohibition upon a dealer from carrying on money lending, banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carries on business as a dealer but he is prevented only from carrying on business as money lender or banker on the security of any article, ornament or both unless authorised by the administrator.
We may indicate that the same provision (section 28) was challenged before the Patna High Court in Bihar State Bullion Merchants ' Association vs Union of lndia(1) and the Gujarat High Court in Ramanlal Purshottamamdas Chokshi vs Union of India & Others (2) and these High Courts have upheld its validity.
Even the restriction in the case of a third person in carrying on business as a money lender, banker or any other business in the same premises is not absolute in as much as the Administrator can authorise the third person to carry on the business in the licensed premises of the dealer and while implementing such limited restrictions or granting relief against the same he will be guided by the policy and purposes of the Act and by the prime consideration that circumvention of the other provisions of the Act shall not be premitted.
For instance under clause (a) the Administrator was required to have regard to the number of dealers existing 'in the region ' in which the applicant was intending to carry on business as dealer but the word 'region ' was no where defined in the Act; similarly clause (b) required the Administrator to have regard to the anticipated demand ', as estimated by him for the ornaments in that region but the expression 'anticipated demand ' was really vague and incapable of assessment leading to a great deal of uncertainty; similarly the expression (1)AIR 1971 Patna, 240.
We approve the view taken in those cases As regards the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court in Harakchand Banthia 's case (supra) while declaring unamended sec.
27(6) of the Act invalid we would like to point out that while conferring power on the Administrator in the matter of granting or renewing a license to a dealer the unamended sec.
Therefore, in our view the objective, the policy and the Scheme of the Act together with the necessity to ensure prevention of circumvention of the other provisions of the Act afford more than sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising the power of discretion conferred on him under sec.
27(6) in several of its clauses referred to certain concepts which Administrator was required to take into account, and these concepts were regarded as indefinite, uncertain and vague.
Having regard to this position which obtains in the case sec.
28 of the Act valid.
L.R. 112. 957 'suitability of the applicant ' in cl.
(2)14 Guj.
In the absence of parity of situation or circumstances the doctrine of parity of reasoning cannot be invoked.
(e) and 'public interest ' in cl.
28 cannot be struck down on the ground of excessive delegation of legislative power and its validity has to be upheld.
27(6) on the ground that it conferred a very wide and vague power on the Administrator.
It may be mentioned that after this provision was struck down by this Court Parliament has carried out the necessary amendment in the Act.
27(6) this Court struck down sec.
28 are meant to prevent the circumvention of other provisions of the Act.
28 by reference to which the Administrator is required to exercise his power.
Moreover, regard must be had to be the nature of the restrictions imposed by the Section.
(g) A did not provide any objective standard or norm and because such indefinite, uncertain and vague expressions or concepts had been used in some of the clauses under sec.
No such vague or indefinite expressions or concepts are to be found in sec.
5(1 of the Act requires that the Administrator should have regard to the policy and purposes of the Act in making his orders.
In the result we set aside the impugned judgment of the High Court and declare sec.
In fact, sec.
If that be so it cannot be said that unfettered or uncanalised or arbitrary power has been conferred upon the Administration under sec.
The appeal succeeds but since the respondents have not appeared there will be no order as to costs.
S.R. Appeal allowed.
Money lending business not to be carried on in licensed premises No licensed dealer shall unless authorised by the Administrator so to do, (a) carry on business as a money lender or banker on the security of any article, or ornament, or both, (b) permit any other person to carry on money lending, banking or any other business, in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
