That being so, the conclusion is inescapable that even though the accounts of the assessee are maintained on cash basis interest due on accrual basis, though not realised, on the outstandings of the money lending business are liable to be included in the net wealth of the assessee.
In this view of the matter, we approve of the opinion expressed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedrevu Venkappa Rao (supra) 311 and in Commissioner of Wealth Tax, A.P. I vs Pachigolla Narasimha Rao(1) and the Calcutta High Court in Dipti Kumar Basu vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, West Bengal(2) and hold that the view taken by the Orissa High Court in Commissioner of Wealth tax vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju (Orissa) (supra) and by the Karnataka High Court in A. T. Mirji vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Karnataka(3) cannot be accepted.
(q) of s.2 indicates that broadly Parliament has fixed upon the last day of the "previous year", as defined under the Income Tax Act, as the valuation date.
There is an obvious advantage in adopting as the valuation date the last day of a period which is also the relevant period under the Income Tax Act.
The definition embodied in the substantive part of cl.
(I) of s.7 as the estimated price, which, in the opinion of the Wealth Tax Officer, the asset would fetch if sold in the open market on the valuation date.
His financial activities during that period determine how his net wealth on a particular valuation date differs from his net wealth on the immediately preceding valuation date.
There is clear indication that the assets to be considered are not circumscribed by any consideration of the particular system of accounting adopted by the assessee.
The reasons for defining the valuation date in terms of the last day of the income tax "previous year" stop there.
In other words, it would be the estimated open market value of the rights in the property which constitute the asset.
The figure of net wealth of the assessee at the end of the "previous year" takes into account the financial activities of the assessee during that "previous year".
That appears plainly from the definition or "net wealth" which speaks of "the aggregate value. of all the assets" belonging to the assessee on the valuation date.
In the result, the question is answered in the affirmative, in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee.
All the assets of the assessee, bar those expressly excepted by the statute, are to be taken into account, and it is immaterial whether the assessee employs one system of accounting or another.
Where the asset is an asset other than cash, its value is determined pursuant to sub section
The assets are not confined to cash.
The system of accounting, mercantile or cash or hybrid, is of no relevance for the purpose of determining the assets of the assessee.
There is no order as to costs.
It is apparent that what accrues as a right also falls to be included within the assets of an assessee under the Wealth Tax Act.
When we speak of the value of a property, on a legal plane we refer to the value of the rights in that property.
