In an application under Chapter IV, Corporation has to enter the arena like any other applicant, face the competition and come up to the level of other private operators intending to obtain stage carriage permits and then in respect of the route in question claim preference.
The reference to Chapter IV A there was for the purpose of contrasting the exclusion contemplated by section 68.F(1) with the preference to be given under section 47 (1 H) and so to interpret the word 'preference ' occurring in section 47(1 H).
Since the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court have failed to consider the merits of the claims of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation and the private operators who did not get a certificate of approval from the Central Government, because of the rule of preference contained in proviso to section 63(7), the proper course for us is to set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and to direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to re hear the appeals and dispose them of in accordance with law, after considering the claims of the eligible applicants in the manner indicated in Sher Singh 's case and now.
The terms and conditions to be fulfilled are that 'the party must have been in the car hire business for a period of 2 years with the help of cars of indigenous make or cars obtained from elsewhere and should have sufficient contacts with travel agencies hoteliers/airlines, etc.
When the Undertaking applies for permit under Chapter IV, it must satisfy the Regional Transport Authority that it is better suited than the private operator to render transport facility to the travelling public.
Qualitative and quantitative comparison on broad features of passenger transport facility such as fleet, facilities to travelling public and other relevant consideration may be undertaken and after balancing these factors other things being equal, the application of the Undertaking shall be given preference over other applicants.
We have no hesitation in saying that all that has been said about 'preference ' in Sher Singh 's case in relation to section 47(1 H) applies mutatis mutandis to the preference contemplated by the proviso to section 63(7).
Clauses (i) to (iii) of the proviso providing for preference to be given to applications for permits from the Indian Tourism Development Corporation, the State Tourism Development Corporation and the State Tourist Department were not questioned, but the preference provided for by clause (iv) and to be given to "such operators of tourist cars, or such travel agents, as may be approved in this behalf by the Ministry dealing in tourism" was questioned as an infringement of article 14 of the Constitution.
One may understand a preference granted to operators of tourist vehicles but it is difficult to understand why preference should be given to operators of tourist cars in the matter of granting permits for tourist vehicles which may well be omnibuses required to travel long distances.
Preference in this context would mean that other things generally appearing to be qualitatively and quantitatively equal though not with mathematical accuracy, statutory provision will tilt the balance in favour of the Undertaking.
It was said that the object of the proviso to section 1018 63(7) was very obviously the promotion of tourism and the approval of the Central Government would be given to those operators of tourist cars and travel agents who may be expected to serve that purpose.
and should be financially sound or that they should be owning and operating five vehicles as tourist taxies of either indigenous make or acquired from elsewhere regardless of the period in the car hire business or that they should be ex Defence Service personnel, who satisfy certain prescribed conditions.
It is seen that the scheme excludes omnibus operators and requires applicants to have 1019 either two years ' experience in the car hire business with contacts in the tourist business or to own five tourist taxies.
Shri C.S. Vaidyanathan, learned counsel for the 'Preferred ' Operators has placed before us 'a Scheme for granting approval to tourist transport operators in India. ' The scheme makes no reference to the proviso to sec.
On the other hand, it mentions that approval carries with it certain privileges, such as, allotment of ex STC vehicles and that it is, therefore, necessary that the department is able to exercise some control on the functioning of these operators.
In the result we set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to hear the appeals in the light of what we have said.
Desai, J., speaking for the court observed: "However, when an application for a permit is made under Chapter IV, the Undertaking has to compete with private operators who may as well make an application for permit.
Would this statutory provision violate equality guaranteed by article 14? The answer is obviously in the negative." . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ". . . let it be made clear that while considering the application for stage carriage permit under section 47, the private operator has an equal chance to get a permit even on inter State route if it shows that the Undertaking is either unable to provide efficient and economical service or that the private operator is better equipped to render the same.
