The service of order of detention on the petitioner while he was in jail was futile and useless since such an order had no application under section 3(2) of the Act.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate, the detaining authority, it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner 's brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
It further appears from the affidavit f f the District Magistrate filed before the High Court of Patna that the petitioner was absconding from the very day of the issuance of the detention order.
" According to the District Magistrate when police pressure to apprehend him became heavy, the detenu opted to surrender before the Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate on 10th January, 1986 in substantive case to frustrate the service of the detention order.
It, however, appears that after the order of detention was passed and before the actual service of the order of detention, the petitioner was taken into custody.
From the affidavit of the District Magistrate it does not appear that either the prospect of immediate release of the detenu or other factors which can justify the detention of a person in detention were properly considered in the light of the principles noted in the aforesaid decision and especially in the decisions, in Rameshwar Shaw vs District Magistrate, Burdwan & Anr., ; and Ramesh Yadav vs District Magistrate Etah and others, though there was a statement to the effect that the petitioner was in jail and was likely to be enlarged on bail.
Eternal vigilance on the part of the authority charged with both law and order and public order is the price which the democracy in this country extracts from the public officials in order to protect the fundamental freedoms of our citizens.
In the affidavits on behalf of the detaining authority though there are indications that transfer of the detenu from one prison to another was considered but the need to serve the detention order while he was in custody was not properly considered by the detaining authority in the light of the relevant factors.
Therefore, though the order of preventive detention when it was passed was not invalid and on relevant considerations, the service of the order was not on proper consideration.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December, 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers, customers and passers by of the area.
In the said case investigation was in progress and the defence of the petitioner in the murder case was that he was falsely implicated and was not at all concerned with the murder.
If a man is in custody and there is no imminent possibility of his being released, the power of preventive detention should not be exercised.
There is no indication that this factor or the question that the said detenu might be released or that there was such a possibility of his release, was taken into consideration by the detaining authority properly and seriously before the service of the order.
It may be mentioned that in the petition it is nowhere stated that the detenu has since been released or that the prospect of his imminent release was properly and with seriousness considered by the detaining authority.
