Commis sioner of Income Tax, Poona vs Dharsey Keshavji, 143 I.T.R. 509 and Commissioner of Income Tax, Poona vs Devichand Uttamchand, In the background of facts of those cases the Bombay High Court held that the gifts were valid.
The transfer was effected by debit ing the assessee 's personal account in the books of the Hindu undivided family with Rs.50,000 and crediting the same in the personal account of his son.
If the possession, enjoyment or benefit of the donor in the property was consistent with the facts and circumstances of the case other than those of the factum of gift, it could not be said that the donee had not retained the possession and enjoyment of the property to the entire exclusion of the donor, or, to the entire exclusion of the donor in any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.
On 27th March, 1957, M made a gift of Rs. 1 lakh to his son, L, and of Rs.50,000 to his wife, K, by making debit entries in his account in the firm and corresponding credits to the accounts of L and K. With effect from 28th March, 1957, L was taken as a partner in the firm by giving L one forth share out of the half share of M. M died on 9th January, 1962.
This Court held affirming the decision of the High Court that section 10 did not apply to the gifts of Rs. 1 lakh and Rs.50,000 made by the deceased to his son and to his wife respectively.
The Madras High Court in the case of Mrs. Ida L. Cham bers and Three Others vs Kelland Huxford Chambers, was dealing with a case where C, proprietor of a business who had invested a large amount of capital in it, caused entries to be made in his account books crediting his wife and certain other members of his family with sums which were debited to his capital account.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax, Burma, held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
Interest on the amounts was also credited in the accounts regularly for some time, until a bank from which C had obtained an overdraft objected to such crediting of interest.
In Sukhlal Sheo Narain vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Haryana, the Punjab & Haryana High Court had dealt with a case where the father had gifted Rs.84,000 i.e. Rs.28,000 to each of his sons.
In the case of Baliram Mathuradas (By his legal Heir, Madanlal Paliram) vs Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay City II, the Bombay High Court had occasion to consider this question and held that there was no evidence of acceptance.
Similarly, in the case of Virji Devshi vs Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay, the Bombay High Court held 129 "Just as the entries in his own account book by a person would not constitute a valid transfer even the entries in the accounts of the firm would not be sufficient." The Madras High Court had also taken divergent views.
It may be noted that in E.M.V. Muthappa Chettiar vs Commission er of Income Tax, Madras, the Madras High Court held that mere entries were not enough to constitute valid gifts particularly when gift of fund continued to be used in the donors ' business.
The entries were followed up by letters to the effect, inter alia, that the sums were en tirely in the nature of personal gifts from C and would bear interest payable half yearly.
C 's wife withdrew various sums of money from time to time from the interest account and whenever C desired to retransfer amounts to his capital account he obtained let ters of consent from her.
It was further held that there was no trust either and that there was nothing in the acts or conduct of C to show that he intended to create a trust or to constitute himself a trus tee.
The Tribunal never doubted that the transaction in question was bona fide but dismissed the appeal of the assessee on the sole ground that the transfer evidenced by the entries in the books of account and by the declaration, did not operate to bring into existence a valid gift.
This Court in the case of Badri Prasad Jagan Prasad vs Commissioner of Income Tax, U.P., (judgment by one of us) had occasion to refer to the effect of book entries but this question which is present before us in the present appeal was not before this Court in that case.
The Wealth Tax Officer and the Income Tax Officer rejected the contention that he made a gift of Rs.50,000 to his son and this amount should be excluded from his taxable net wealth.
The decision of the Privy Council is reported in ILR 1944 at page 617. 130 The Punjab and Haryana High Court in Balireal Nawal Kishore vs Commissioner of Income Tax, Punjab, held that the credit cash balance of the donor was Rs.81,000 and cash balance with firm was only Rs.4,299 but the unuti lised overdraft of the firm was Rs. 1,27,088.
The said decision was also followed in Bhau Ram Jawaharmal vs Commissioner of Income Tax, U.P., in Gopal Jalan vs Commissioner of Income Tax, U.P., and in Phool Chand Gajanand vs Commis sioner of Income Tax, U.P., We are of the opinion that each case must be decided on the facts of that case.
Where the assessee has a credit amount with firm or with family or with a banking company and that sum is available to that firm or the company or H.U.F. on the date of the gift, then a valid gift by book entries might be possible but where a sum was not available with the firm or the family or a company which was not a banking company or which had no overdraft facility, by mere book entries even though there was acceptance of that gift by the donee would not effectuate a valid gift.
