The objections of the Managing Committee were first brought to the notice of the Minister for Metropolitan Development who submitted a note to the Chief Minister pointing out that even if four acres of land out of the eight acres of Begumbari land was given to the Taj Group, there would still remain sufficient land for accommodating the existing facilities.
The Alipore Zoological Garden authorities were required to vacate the existing structure within a period of six months which was also the period stipulated for raising the new constructions.
This resolution was forwarded to the Chief Minister and considered by his as evident from the note of the Chief Minister and the suse quent reversal of the Managing Committee 's resolution at the instance of the Chief Minster and on his assurances.
Later Mrs. Anne Wright appeared to be satisfied with what was finally done as evident from her letter dated November 19, 1983 to Mr. J.R.D. Tata, a copy of which has been placed before us.
One of the submissions of Dr. Singhvi, learned counsel for the appellants, was that the Bengal Public Parks Act, 1904 vested the Begumbari land in the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden and that what had become statutorily vested in the Committee could not be divested by an execu tive fiat.
The Zoological Garden Committee being reimbursed for any expenditure they may have incurred in building there." Dr. Singhvi questioned the authenticity of the documents and also objected to their reception in evidence on the ground that no foundation had been laid for the reception of sec ondary evidence.
prohibit or regulate fishing or boating, prohibit bathing, or the pollu tion of water by any other means, prohibit the grazing of horses or ponies, prohibit the teasing or annoying of ani mals or birds kept in the park, prohibit the commission of any nuisance, or the molestation or annoyance of any person resorting to the park etc.
He proceeded to say, "The Government, therefore, cannot, for exam ple, give a contract or sell or lease out its property for a considerations less than the highest that can be obtained for it, unless of course there are other considerations which render it reasonable and in public interest to do so.
" With reference to the particular facts of the case, it was stated, "The argument of the petitioners was that at the auctions held in December, 1978, January 1979 and April 1979, the price of resin rea lised was as much as Rs. 484, Rs. 520 and Rs. 700 per quintal respectively and when the market price was so high, it was improper and contrary to public interest on the part of the state to sell resin to the second respondents at the rate of Rs. 320 per quintal under the impugned order.
The State may choose to do so, if it thinks fit and in a given situation, it may even turn to be advantageous for the State to do so, but if any private party comes before the State and offers to set up an industry, the State would not be commit ting breach of any constitutional or legal obligation if it negotiates with such party and agrees to provide resources and other facilities for the purpose of setting up the industry.
To serve this purpose they want to prevent a 5 Star Hotel coming up in its vicinity in_four acres land belonging to the Zoo and thus to see that this land is not lost to the Zoo.
Because of the pendency of this matter, valuable time has been lost and if further time is lost, the respondent No. 5 may not have any further interest in the matter.
" This public interest:litigation takes its birth, perhaps from the righteous indignation of the petitioners, against the State Government at their bartering away of four acres of land belonging to the Zoo to the Taj Group of Hotels.
When the matter came up before this Court, this Court gave priority to this case despite the huge pendency of cases before it, to see whether public interest was really in peril or not.
If courts do not restrict the free flow of such cases in the name of Public Interest Litigations, the tradi tional litigation will suffer and the courts of law, instead of dispensing justice, will have to take upon themselves administrative and executive functions.
He mentioned that Dr. Biswas, a renowned ornithologist had also been consulted by the Taj Management and he had also confirmed that a 75 feet building would not interfere with the landing or climb ing out of the birds from the lake.
The Committee 's objections were two fold: (1) A muliti storied building in the vicinity of the Zoo will disturb the 258 animals and the ecological balance and will affect the bird migration (2) the land was already used for various pur poses, that is, fodder cultivation, burial ground for ani mals, hospital, operation theatre, quarantine area, post martom room and nursery.
We are satisfied that the question of obstruction which may be caused to migratory birds did not go unnoticed by the Government before the deciSion to lease the land was taken and we are also satisfied that the building of the proposed hotel is not likely to cause any obstruction to the flight path of the migratory birds.
What was not said in either of the Cabinet Memoran da, it was said, could not later be supplemented by consid erations which were never present to the mind of the deci sion making authority.
We must straightaway say that no objection was taken either before the single judge or before the Division Bench either to the authenticity or to the admissi bility of the documents.
We are satisfied that for the purposes of the present case, we will be justified in proceeding on the basis that the land which was undoubt edly Government land, to start with, was given to the Zoo logical Garden upon the terms set out in the two letters.
The very nature of the construction and establishment of a Five Star Hotel is indicative of a requirement of expertise and sound financial position on the part of those who might offer to construct and establish them.
Bhagwatti, J. speaking for the Court observed that the activities of the Government had a public element and if it entered into any contract, it must do so fairly without discrimination and without unfair procedure.
If the State were simply selling resin, there can be no doubt that the State must endeavour to obtain the highest price subject, of course, to any other over riding considerations of public interest and in that event, its action in giving resin to a private individual at a lesser price would be arbitrary and contrary to public interest.
the object of the State in such a case is not to earn revenue from sale of resin, but to promote the setting up of industries within the State." And again, "If the State were giving tapping contract simpliciter there can be no doubt that the State would have to auction or invite tenders for securing the highest price, subject, of course, to any other relevant overriding considerations of public weal or interest.
for the purpose of encouraging setting up of industries within the State, we do not think the State is bound to advertise and tell the people that it wants a particular industry to be set up within the State and invite those interested to come up with pro posals for the purpose.
But where disposal is for aug mentation of revenue and nothing else, the State is under an obligation to secure the best market price available in a market econo my.
In their writ petition or in course of their submissions before us the appellants did not try to make out a case of personal malice against the State Government or its Ministers and Civil Servants . . " The Division Bench held that the decision taken was neither unreasonable nor arbitrary and that taking away of four acres of land from the Zoo was not detrimental to public interest.
During the course of the arguments, we soared high along with the migratory birds into the realms of ecology, envi ronmental protection, public interest, natural justice, arbitrariness, eminent domain and the like and ultimately, from those ethereal regions descended on the terraferma faced with the reality that this case is devoid of any merits and has only to be dismissed.
It is only when courts are apprised of gross violation of fundamental rights by a group or a class action or when basic human rights are invaded or when there are complaints of such acts as shock the judicial conscience that the courts, especially this Court, should leave aside procedural shackles and hear such petitions and extend its jurisdiction under all available provisions for remedying the hardships and miseries of the needy, the under dog and the neglected.
In Kasturilal Lakshmi Reddy vs State of Jammu and Kash mir (supra), Bhagwati, J. again, speaking for the Court reiterated what had said earlier in R.D. Shetty vs Interna tional Airport Authority (supra).
Factors such as per sonal attachment, or affinity, kinship, empa thy, religious sentiment or limiting the choice to whom he may be willing to sell, may permit him to sell the property at a song and without demure.
He also pointed out that all precautions would be taken in the matter of illumination of the hotel and lay out of the surroundings so that no disturbance would be caused to the flight path of the birds or animals.
He pointed out that the four acre plot was not within the main Zoological Garden, but was separated from it by the Belvedere Road which was an important thoroughfare in the city.
He explained that what he meant to say was that migratory birds visiting the Zoo lake choose places to the east and south east of the lake for nocturnal feeding and that their flight to the nocturnal feeding grounds in the marshes would be affected, if the proposed hotel was a high rise building.
The Bengal Parks Act, 1904 was enacted "to protect public parks and gardens in Bengal from injury and to secure the public from molestation annoyance while resorting to such parks and gardens.
KHALID, J: The tenacity with which this expensive public interest litigation was pursued by the petitioners, before the learned Single Judge and a Division Bench of the Calcut ta High Court and before this Court is commendable.
I ought to point out further that as the peti tioners obtained the interim order, obviously they were not interested in an early hearing of this matter and until a few months back no step was taken to have this matter heard.
decentralising the judicial system and entrusting majority of traditional litigation to village courts and Lok Adalats without the usual populist stance and by a complete restructuring of the procedural law which is the villain in delaying disposal of cases.
Again sustenance to the argument of the learned counsel for the appellants is sought to be drawn from the circumstance that neither of the two Cabinet Memoranda dated January 7, 1981 and September 9, 1981 referred to the migratory birds.
That the Govern ment was aware of the dissension based on the alleged ob struction likely to be caused by a mulit storeyed building to the flight of the migratory birds appears from the letter of the Chief Minister to the Prime Minister.
Section 3 enables the State Government to extend by a notification, the boundaries of a park but that can only be for the pur poses of the Act and not for the purpose of vesting or creating any title in a property.
In Rash Bihari Panda vs State of Orissa (supra) the Government offered the option to purchase kendu leaves to certain old contractors on the same terms as in the previous year.
The State Government has produced before me the original files, including those containing the notes and Cabinet Memorandum for my inspection, the facts which I shall set out herein are gathered from these records and files produced before me, though most of them do not find place in the affidavits . . . " The two portions of Judgment extracted above show that things: one, the petitioners did not take any steps to get the matter heard expeditiously, after they obtained an interim order to get all the work stopped; two, that the State Government made available to the Court all the materi als to prove that its decision was taken after mature con sideration at all levels.
They do not deal with cases of trans fer of land for a specific socio economic object, where, the securing of immediate revenue is not the principal object but other special and economic benefits are sought.
Whenever the Government dealt with the public, whether by way of giving jobs or entering into contracts or issuing quotas or li cences or granting other forms of larges, the Government could not act arbitrarily at its sweet will but must act in conformity with standards or norms without being arbitrary, irrational or irrelevant.
We have referred to those considerations only illustratively, for there may be an infinite variety of con siderations which may have to be taken into account by the Government in formulating its policies and it is on a total evaluation of various considerations which have weighed with the Government in taking a particular action, that the Court would have to decide whether the action of the Government is reasonable and in public interest.
" I wish to delineate the parameters of public interest litigation concisely, against the background of the facts of this case, so that this salutory type of litigation does not lose its credibility.
This method was also subject to criticism by the appellants ' counsel and he in support of his submission handed over to us a calcula tion, which according to me, betrays unawareness with the method of calculation to be adopted in similar cases.
We must remember that the process of choosing and allotting the land to the Taj Group of Hotels took merely two years, during the course of which objections of various kinds were raised from time to time.
The Chief Minister was certainly aware of the question of the migratory birds before it was finally decided to allot the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels.
It is not one of those cases where the evidence is first gathered and a decision is later arrived at one fine morning and the deci sion is incorporated in a reasoned order.
This is a case where the decision and the reasons for the decisions can only be gathered by looking at the entire course of events and circumstances stretching over the period from the initiation of the proposal to the taking of the final decision.
Another term was that the Zoological Garden Committee would be suitably compensated for any expenditure incurred by it on the construction of any building on the land.
In particular, the rules may regulate the admission into the park of persons, animals and vehicles, prohibit the causing of any manner of injury to the trees, plants, monuments, furniture etc.
In pursuing the socio economic objective is the State bound to 268 invite tenders or held a public auction? To answer this question, we may refer to the cases cited at the Bar.
In the present case as earlier explained by us direct negotiation with these who had come forward with proposals to construct Five Star Hotels was without doubt the most reasonable and rational way of proceeding in the matter rather than invit ing tenders or holding public auction.
The Court cannot lightly assume that the action taken by the Government is unreasonable or without public interest because, as we said above, there are a large number of policy considerations which must necessarily weigh with the Government in taking action and therefore the Court would not strike down governmental action as invalid on this ground, unless it is clearly satisfied that the action is unreasonable or not in public interest.
It is obvious that, in view of this policy, no resin would be auctioned by the State and there would be no question of sale of resin in the open market and in this situation, it would be totally irrelevant to import the concept of market price with reference to which the adequacy of the price charged by the State to the second respondents could be judged.
But, where the State has, as a matter of policy, stopped selling resin to outsiders and decided to allot it only to industries set up within the State for the purpose of encouraging industrialisation, there can be no scope for 271 complaint that the State is giving resin at a lesser price than that which could be obtained in the open market.
The yardstick of price in the open market would be wholly inept, because in view of the State Policy, there would be no question of any resin being sold in the open market.
In State of Haryana vs Jage Ram (supra), it was held that it was not open to the Excise Authorities to pick and choose a few persons only as the recipients of the notice of reauc tion.
This is how the Division Bench deals with aspect of the case in its Judgment: "The appellants before us have impunged the State Government 's decision to grant aforesaid four acres of land out of Begumbari Compound to India Hotel Co. Ltd., mainly on the ground that the same was unreasonable and arbitrary.
We cannot do so in the face of the assurance of the Chief Minister that facilities would be provided for the Zoo and if, as the saying goes, the proof of the pudding is in the eating, the Chief Minister 's assurances are found reflected in the lease executed by the Taj Group of Hotels in favour of the Government of West Bengal.
The hotel was porposed to be built away from the frontage of the plot in Belvedere Road and was to be a low rise structure, the highest point of which would not exceed 75 feet.
The vehicular traffic on Belvedere Road which was also heavy did not bother the birds and the slight increase of the vehicular traffic consequent on the construction of the hotel was also not likely to bother them either.
We may also note here a point made by Dr. Biswas in his letter to the Statesman that there were possible health hazards in the re location of the Zoo hospital, quarantine area and post mortem room in the area adjacent to the staff quarters.
He is no expert on the subject of public health and no one has complained that there would be any hazard to the health of those living in the staff quarters by the re location Of the hospital, etc.
The subject which was discussed by the Expert Committee on September 25, 1981 was "Construction of a Five Star Hotel within the premises of Alipore Zoo in Calcutta." The proceedings of the Commit tee were recorded as follows: "Director, Geological Survey of India ex plained the whole matter and pointed out the utter impropriety of the decision of the Government of West Bengal to construct a FiveStar Hotel within the premises of Alipore Zoo in Calcutta.
It was said that the principles of Natural Justice had not been observed and that those who are most interested in the Zoological Garden were not heard in the matter before the decision was taken.
Such as those as were really interested in the matter like the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden and the Director of the Zoo did have their say in the matter.
The records were before the High Court and there are now before us two copies of a letter written on July 7, 1880 by the Assistant Secretary to the Government of Bengal in the Public Works Department to Mr. L. Schwandler, Honorary Secretary, Zoological Garden conveying to him the sanction of the Lt. Governor for the transfer of the land to the east of Belvedere Road, known as Begumbari land to the charge of the Committee of the Zoolog ical Garden on the terms agreed to by the Committee in their letter dated April 23rd.
Like similar volumes going by whatever name, pub lished by the Boards of Revenue of other States, the West Bengal Land Management Manual also is compendium of (1) statutes and rules framed either by the Government or by the Board of Revenue pursuant to a statutory power conferred on them; (2) Orders issued by the Government from time to time; and (3) Orders, circulars, instructions and memoranda issued by the Board of Revenue from time to time.
The Court held that the right to make offers being open to a limited class of persons, it effectively shut out all other persons carrying on trade in Kendu leaves and also new entrants into that business.
Such considerations may be that some Directive Principle is sought to be advanced on implemented or that the contract or the property is given not with a view to earning revenue but for the purpose of carrying out a welfare scheme for the benefit of a particular group or section of people deserving it or that the person who has offered a higher consideration is not otherwise fit to be given the contract or the property.
The difference between sale of land and other readily saleable commodities and the allotment of land for estab lishing a modern Five Star Hotel of International standard is so obvious as to need no more explanation.
One of the methods of securing the public interest, when it is considered necessary to dispose of a property, is to sell the property by public auction or by inviting tenders.
There may be situations where there are compelling reasons necessitating departure from the rule but then the reasons for the depar ture must be rational and should not be suggestive of dis crimination.
On a consideration of all the facts and circumstances of the case, we are satisfied that the Government of West Bengal acted perfectly bona fide in granting the lease of Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels for the construc tion of a Five Star hotel in Calcutta.
The concern of the appellants has been to preserve the Zoo, to protect and encourage the migratory birds, to keep their trajectory clear, to preserve their diurnal feed and nocturnal habitat and to protect the Zoo.
In the place of a dilapidated hospi tal, operation theater and the like, they constructed build ings anew at a cost of Rs.30 lakhs which amount they were entitled to be reimbursed under clause 25 of the lease, which they voluntarily gave up.
The Chief Minister 's attention was expressly drawn to the Managing Committee 's first Resolution expressing its opposition to the proposal to give the land for the construction of a hotel and detailing the objections and the Chief Minister had expressly noted that all facili ties necessary for the Zoo would be provided by the Govern ment.
The learned 267 counsel invited our attention to several decisions of the court: Rash Bihari Panda vs State of Orissa, ; ; R.D. Shetty vs International Airport Authority, ; ; Kasturi Lal Laxmi Reddy vs State of Jammu & Kashmir, ; ; State of Haryana vs Jage Ram, ; Ram & Shyam Co. vs State of Haryana, and Chenchu Rami Reddy vs Government of Andhra Pradesh, [1986] 3 SCC 391.
We have it in the record that the Oberoi Group of Hotels already had a Five Star Hotel in Calcutta while the Welcome Group of Hotels were making their own Private negotiations and arrangements for establishing a Five Star Hotel.
272 In Ram & Shyam Company vs State of Haryana (supra) dealing with the question of disposal of State property Desai, J. speaking for the court said, "Let us put into focus the clearly demarcated approach that distinguishes the use and dis posal of private property and socialist property.
It was also pointed out that particular care would be taken in the matter of illumination of the hotel so that bright lights or neor signs emanating from the hotel would not disturb the birds and animals.
The submission was that neither the Cabinet memorandum of Janu ary 7, 1981 nor the Cabinet Memorandum of September 9, 1981 revealed that relevant considerations had been taken into account.
If 269 the Government departed from such standard or norm in any particular case or cases its action was liable to be struck down unless it could be shown that the departure was not arbitrary but was based on some valid principle which was not irrational, unreasonable or dicriminatory.
The Chief Town Planner who was deputed to visit the site at the request of the Secretary, Metropolitan Development Department and who visited the Zoo accompanied by the Director of the Zoo reported that 2 to 21/2 acres of land might be made avail able for the hotel.
In the face of all this material, we do not see how it can be seriously contended that the interests and the requirements of the Zoo were totally ignored and not kept in mind when the decision was taken to lease the land to the Taj Group of Hotels.
Shri J.R.D. Tata, on behalf of the Taj Group of Hotels, also wrote to the Prime Minister assuring her that the hotel management had dis cussed the matter at length with a representatives of the Wild 261 Life Fund who, after discussion, had been satisfied that the proposed hotel would cause no disturbance to the birds.
From the Preamble and the provisions of the Act, it is clear that the Act is intended to protect the inmates and the property of the park from injury by persons resorting to the park and to protect persons resorting to the park from molestation or annoyance by others.
Regarding the commercial and financial aspects of the lease also there is nothing secretive though they came in for sharp criticism at the hands of the appellants before us.
The amount expended by the lessee towards the reconstruction of the structures was to be adjusted without interest against the dues of the lessee to the Government.
The Government or the Board may have the power the amend these orders and instruc tions, but nonetheless they must be obeyed so long as they are in force and are applicable.
These provisions of the Land Management Manual do not appear to have anything to do with the transfer and use of the land in the manner proposed, in which the State also has a vital stake apart from the mere raising of revenue for the State.
The Division Bench in an equally reasoned Judgment, adverting to all the factual aspects of the case, upheld the Judgment of the learned Trial Judge and dismissed the appeal.
They agreed to build not the usual skyscrapper hotel, but a garden hotel, the height of which would not go beyond 75 feet, despite the fact that there existed in the surrounding area buildings which were very high.
Apart from the fact that he did not mention what he had in mind when he spoke of a high rise building, the point made by Shri J.R.D. Tata in his letter to the Prime Minister that birds flying in or flying out had to fly at a very steep angle while negotiating the tall trees between the lake and Belvedere Road, an angle much steeper than the angle at which they would have to fly 262 to negotiate a 75 feet tall building, such as, the proposed hotel, remains unanswered.
The Committee agreed fully with this view and desired that this matter should be taken up immediately by the Central Government with the State Government." This record of the proceedings shows that the Experts Com mittee of the Wild Life Fund was proceeding on the fundamen tal wrong assumption that the hotel was proposed to be constructed "within the premises of Alipore Zoo".
Bearing in mind the proper approach that we have to make when 263 questions of ecology and environment are raised, an approach which we have mentioned at the outset, we are satisfied that the facts and circumstances brought out by the appellants do not justify an inference that the construction of the pro posed hotel in the Begumbari land would interfere in any manner with the animals in the Zoo and the birds arriving at the Zoo or otherwise disturb the ecology: The proposed hotel is a Garden hotel and there is perhaps every chance of the ecology and environment improving as a result of planting numerous trees all around the proposed hotel and the removal of the burial ground and dumping ground for rubbish.
The appellants invited our attention to paragraphs 165, 166 and 167 of the Land Management Manual and urged that the rules laid down by the provisions have been ignored by the Government of West Bengal.
It is to be seen that in the present case no one has come forward alleging that he has been discriminated against and his fundamental right to carry on business had been affected.
The litigation has been pending from 1982 and in the bargin what has hap pened is described by the learned Trial Judge as follows, in paragraph 130 of his Judgment: "130.
One would have thought that the concurrent decisions of the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench, on the facts of the case, would have persuaded the appellants, to rest content with the litigation by accepting the verdicts so given.
It is important to note that unlike Mohinder Singh Gill 's case where that Court was dealing with a Statutory Order made by a statutory functionary who could not therefore, be allowed to supplement the grounds of this order by later explana tions, the present is a 264 case where neither a statutory functions nor a statutory functionary is involved but the transaction bears a commer cial though public character which can only be settled after protracted discussion, clarification and consultation with all interested persons.
The further submission of Dr. Singhvi was that whatever might have been the terms of the grant in favour of the Zoological Garden, the Bengal Parks Act, 1904, vested the land in favour of the Zoological Garden and there was no way by which the Government could divest the Zoological Garden of the land except by a procedure known to the law such as acquisition or requisition.
3, it does not mean that the land has become the property of the park; it only means that the various things, the doing of which is regulated or prohibited by the Act and the rules will not be done or will be regulated on the adjacent land also.
Realising that the scheme of offering to renew con tracts with the old licences on the same terms was open to objection, the Government changed its policy and formulated a new scheme by which offers were invited from intending purchasers of Kendu leaves but the invitation was restricted to these individuals who had carried out the contracts in the previous year without default and to the satisfaction of the Government.
In the circumstances, particularly in the absence of any leading hoteliers coming forward, the Government of West Bengal was perfectly justified in entering into negotiations with the I.T.D.C. and the Taj Group of Hotels instead of inviting tenders.
" The observations of the Court in the light of the facts therein appear to fully justify the action of the West Bengal Government in the present case not inviting tenders or not holding public auction.
This is subject to one important limitation that socialist property may be disposed at the price lower than the market price or even for a token price to achieve some defined constitutionally recongnised public purpose, one such being to achieve the goals set out in Part IV of the Constitution.
This calculation conveniently forgets that what is involved here is not the sale of the land but a lease by the Government, as a policy decision to the hotel group to start a Five Star Hotel, which according to the Government was a prime need to the city of Calcutta.
We have earlier referred to the letter of the Director of the Zoo dated June 29, 1981 addressed to the Secretary, Animal Husbandary Department where he expressed his opposi tion to the proposal on the ground that the Zoo could not be run for a single day without the essential services which were being provided in the four acres of land proposed to be given for the hotel.
The letter of the Director of the Zoo was followed by a note by the Secretary of the Animal Husbandry Department suggesting that the practical problems of the Zoo should receive de tailed consideration and that the immediate transfer of the land to the hotel would mean discontinuance of the existing facilities.
We find it impossible to agree with the stricture that the Chief Minister turned a blind eye and a dent ear to the interests and the requirements of the Zoo and went about the question 259 of allotment of land to the Taj Group of Hotels determined to give the land to them and with a mind closed to every thing else.
We have no doubt that the Government was quite alive to the need for expan sion of the zoo when they decided to grant four acres of Begumbari land which was not used for the main purpose of the zoo for the construction of a Five Star hotel.
In this letter, the Chief Minister pointed out that there were already in existence a number of multistoreyed buildings all around the Zoological Garden, but there was no report that they had any adverse effect on the migratory birds or the animals.
What is important is that the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden never doubted the authenticity of the documents nor was any question ever raised to suggest that the terms of the grant were other than those mentioned in the letters.
We do not think that the provisions of the Bengal Public Parks Act have any relevance to the question of the power of the Government to transfer the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels.
All its attempt must be to obtain the best available price while dispos ing of its property because the greater the revenue, the welfare activities will get a fillip and shot in the arm.
On a 276 perusal of the records I find that the State Government had made available to the Court all the relevant documents so as to satisfy the Court about the propriety of its action.
In this case, ultimately the hearing was not confined only in respect of the mate rials specified .in the petition and affida vits or annexure to the same, but the submis sions were based on the further documents and files produced before me mainly by the State and also some documents by the private re spondent being respondent No. 5.1 ought to point out that this is one of the exceptional cases where the State has made available to this Court all documents in connection with the proposal for lending over a piece of the State Government land to respondent No. 5 to enable them to construct a 5 star hotel in Calcutta.
The learned counsel for the appellants drew our atten tion to a letter written by Dr. Biswas to the Statesman dated August 3, 1982 in which he disowned having made any statement to a press correspondent by name, Bachi J Karkaria that the hotel posed no threat at all to the migratory flight path.
