The notification further provided that apprentice train examiners who had already been absorbed in grade 'D ' before April, 1966 should en bloc be accommodated in grade 'C ' in the eighty per cent of the vacancies without undergoing any selection and with regard to twenty per cent of the vacancies, reserved for the other class promotion was to be on selection basis and not on the basis of seniority cum suitability.
The relevant portion of the judgment of the High Court reads thus: "A reasonable classification which prevents a Court from dissecting it is one which includes all persons who are similarly situated with respect to the purpose of law or 216 objective which the rule or section seeks to achieve.
It appears to be the inten tion of Parliament that even as late as in 1981 that the two categories of employees, namely, the transferred employees and employees recruited after 1st September, 1956 in the Corporation should be kept separate.
This Court had to deal with a case involving a similar situation in Railway Board vs A. Pitchumani, ; Several railway companies which were running their own railways in different parts of India were amalaga mated with the Indian Railway Administration in 1947.
The observation made by Pathak, J. in the course of his judgment that "there is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section (2) in respect of transferred employees.being struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees" is signifi cant.
On the absorption of the services of the servants of the previous railway companies it became necessary for the Indian Railway Administration to frame rules with regard to their conditions of service including the determination of the age of retirement of those railway employees.
Having regard to the different conditions of service that were prevailing in the various establishments whose business was taken over by the Corporation it can hardly be disputed that the fixation of age of superannuation is one of the essential parts of the process of transfer and inte gration to which sub section (2) of section 11 of the Act is applicable.
A discrimination made by a State between the employees who are directly recruited to the service of the State and the employees whose services are taken over by the State on the taking over of the institutions where they were working has been held to be not unconstitutional by this Court in Ram Lal Wadhwa & Anr.
In the 210 course of its decision this Court while rejecting the con tention of the petitioners observed thus at pages 635 636: "The principles on which discrimination and breach of articles 14 and 16 can be said to result have been by now so well settled that we do not think it necessary to repeat them here once again.
Vacancies in grade 'D ' of Train Examiners were filled by (a) direct recruits, i.e., apprentice train examiners who had completed the prescribed period of training, and (b) promoters from skilled artisans Promotion from grade 'D ' to 'C ' was on the basis of seniority cum suitability.
The petitioner in the said case who entered Railway service in 1954 as a skilled artisan and was selected and confirmed in grade 'D ' chal lenged that part of the notification which gave favourable treatment to apprentice train examiners who had already been absorbed in grade 'D ' as arbitrary and discriminatory anti violative of Article 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
This Court held that when once the direct recruits and promoters were absorbed in one cadre they formed one class and they could not be distinguished again for the purpose of further promotion to the higher grade 'C ' The Court further ob served that before the impugned notification was issued there was only one rule of promotion applicable to both direct recruits and promoters but by the impugned notifica tion discriminatory treatment was made in favour of the apprentice train examiners who had already been absorbed in grade 'D '.
So long employees are in Class III they can be said to constitute two different classes of transferred and direct appointees but once they are promoted they become similarly situated and the dis tinction stands obliterated.
The High Court of Delhi has rejected two petitions in which the very question raised in this case arose for consideration, namely, N.L. Aneja vs Union of India and Others, (Civil Writ No. 1911 of 1986) and H.S. Kochar vs L.I.C. of lndia & Ors., (C.W. No. 1660 of 1986) at the stage of admission itself giving reasons, though short, for its orders.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
220 The Respondent in that case, that is, A. Pitchumani while he was entitled before December 23, 1967 to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years as he had joined the service of the Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway Company on August 16, 1927, i.e., prior to March 31, 1938 and satis fied the other conditions mentioned in clause (b) of rule 2046 could not have the benefit of that clause on and after December 23, 1967 since in the Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway Company where he was formerly working there was no rule similar to clause (b) as regards the age of retirement.
The High Court of Mysore struck down a part of the new note only on the ground that it was discriminatory and directed that the Respondent, A. Pitchumani should be allowed to continue in the service till he completed the age of 60 years.
Such classification for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon the date of entry into services is not, therefore, something which is unusual and such classification becomes necessary on account of historical facts and the need for treating the employees in a fair and just way.
On February 13, 1961, the Punjab Government promulgat ed under the proviso to Article 309 of 209 the Constitution, the Punjab Educational Service (Provincia lised Cadre) Class III Rules, giving them retrospective effect from October 1, 1957.
The principle enunci ated in this case can be applied to the cases of three officers who belong to the Department of Insurance who joined the service of the Corporation after resigning their posts in the Government of India in the year 1965, there being no chance of any addition to their class.
The Re spondent, A. Pitchumani questioned before the High Court of Mysore (Karnataka) the validity of the note substituted by the Order dated December 23, 1967 which took away his right to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years which he otherwise possessed before the introduction of the said note.
We find that the distinc tion between the two classes is recognised by Parliament even as late as 1981 when it amended section 49 of the Act by deleting clause (bb) of sub section (2) thereof and by 215 amending section 48 of the Act by introducing clause (cc) in subsection (2) and the new sub section (2A) in it.
The Court rejected the petition stating that the management of Air India having taken a decision "to phase out U.K. incumbents when they attain the age of 45", it was not discriminatory to Air Hostesses of Indian origin who were to retire at the age of 35 years and was not unconstitutional.
This Court did not find fault with the classifica tion that had been made between the persons falling under clause (a) and persons falling under clause (b) on the basis of the date of entry into service since clauses (a) and (b) of rule 2046 had uniform application to all the employees of the Indian Railway Administration who came within the re spective clauses.
By making the above observation this Court has virtually accepted the position that when there are special circumstances justifying the difference, it is open to fix different ages of retirement for the employees of an establishment in appropriate cases.
It was also not incumbent on the Government to frame the 1961 Rules uniformly applicable to both the cate gories of teachers, firstly, because a rule framing authori ty need not legislate for all the categories and can select for which category to legislate, (see Sakhawat Ali vs State of Orissa, ; Madhubhai Amathalal Gandhi vs The Union of India, ; and Vivian Joseph Ferreria vs The Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay, , and secondly, because it had already come to a decision of gradually diminishing the provincia lised cadre so that ultimately only the state cadre would remain in the service.
We may also refer to one decision of the Madras High Court and another decision of the Calcutta High Court which arose trader the provisions of the Banking Companies (Acqui sition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (Act 5 to 1970) where again the claim of employees of the banks in question who joined their service after nationalisation to the benefit of the conditions prescribed in the case of employees of the former banking companies whose services were taken over on nationalisation as regards the age of retirement arose for consideration.
Since the classification of the employees for the purpose of age of retirement into two categories in this case appears to us to be reasonable and not arbitrary and that there is a reasonable nexus between the classification and the object to be attained thereby, it is not possible to hold that regulation 19(2) is violative of Article 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
There is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section (2) in respect of transferred employees being struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part 111 of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees.
Accordingly, the President of India agreed to release 16 persons from the service of the Government of India to enable the Corporation to appoint them in its service by the Order of the Central Government dated 25th February, 1964.
In the case of those 16 people the Corporation passed a separate order fixing their age of retirement as 60 years having regard to the negotiations which had taken place between the Corporation and the Government before the taking over of their services by the Corporation.
They again belong to a different category altogether and 212 the fixation of the age of retirement in their case at 60 years cannot be challenged by those who were directly re cruited by the Corporation after September 1, 1956 as there is no similarity between them and the said 16 officers.
It is true that originally employees belonging to Class III and Class IV categories amongst the transferred employees were given the benefit of retirement at the age of 60 years but the employees belong ing to Class III and Class IV categories recruited after 1st September, 1956 were required to retire on the completion of 58 years of age.
Having regard to the lower emoluments and other benefits which the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV are entitled to get from the Corporation and the higher emoluments and other benefits to which officers belonging to Class I and Class II are entitled and also the nature of their work and the powers enjoyed by them we are of the view that fixation of different ages of retirement to the different classes of employees would not by itself be violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
Thereafter only one class of employees would be in the service of the Corpo ration, namely, those appointed subsequent to 1st September, 1956 by the Corporation in respect of whom the Corporation has fixed the age of retirement as 58 years which corre sponds to the age of retirement in almost all the public sector establishments, the Central Government services and the State Government services.
We are only concerned with the question whether the employees appointed after 1st September, 1956 have been subjected to any hostile discrimination while fixing the age of retirement contrary to Article 14 and Article 16 of the Constitution.
Does he still carry the stamp of experience and expertise of having worked with insurer? Once a transferred em ployee of Class III and a direct appointee in (that) class are promoted to Class I obviously on merit, efficiency and seniority then how can the distinction of 'transferred ' and 'direct ' be maintained.
385 Sabyasachi Mukharji J., has upheld the said classi fication of railway employees into two categories viz. those who joined on or before 31.3. 1938 and those who joined after 31.3. 1938 for purposes of fixing the age of superan nuation on the basis of same historical facts which are set out in detail in that judgment.
It, however, distinguished it on the ground that the employees in question had not been promoted from Class III to Class I as it was the case here but the petitioners before it had continued in Class I or Class 11 right from the commence ment.
A ministerial railway servant who entered Government service on or before the 31st March, 1938 and held on that date (i) a lien or a suspended lien on a permanent post, or 219 (ii) a permanent post in a provision al substantive capacity under Clause (d) of Rule 2008 and continued to hold the same without interruption until he was confirmed in that post, shall be retained in service till the day he attains the age of sixty years.
221 On behalf of the 1st Respondent reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in M/s. British Paints (India) Ltd. vs The Workmen, ; in support of his case that there should be no discrimination amongst the employees of an establishment with regard to the age of superannuation.
As already seen, ever since 1937 and even before, the two categories of teachers have always remained distinct, governed by different sets of rules, recruited by different authorities and having, otherwise than in the matter of pay scales and qualifications, differ ent conditions of service.
So long as such order is confined to what is necessitated by the proc ess of transfer and integration, the transferred employees constitute a reasonably defined class in themselves and form no common basis with newly recruited employees." (underlining by us) emphasis supplied Pathak, J. also observed at Page 1136 thus: "Another point is whether the power under the second limb of sub section
Having accepted the promotion along with the higher benefits flowing from it he cannot contend after several years that he had been prejudicially affected by the condition relating to the age of retirement applicable to Class I officers appointed after September 1, 1956.
The regulations and other provisions as in force immediately before the commencement of the Life Insurance Corporation (Amendment) Act, 1981, with respect to the terms and conditions of service of employees and agents of the Corporation including those who became employees and agents of the Corpo ration on the appointed day under this Act, shall be deemed to be rules made under clause (cc) of sub section (2) and shall, subject to the other provisions of this section, have effect accordingly." (underlining by us) empha sis supplied Clause (cc) of section 48(2) of the Act, however, has been given retrospective effect from 20th June, 1979.
The apparent or inherent intention sought to be achieved by the regulation 19 framed by Corporation was to continue upto age of sixty years the employees of insurers as the age of superannuation in some of the companies was sixty and to derive benefit from expertise and experience of employees who had worked with insurers.
That had to be done for the simple reason that 211 the provincialised cadre was already frozen even before October 1, 1957 and Government had decided not to make fresh appointments in that cadre since that cadre was to be a diminishing one.
We do not find any substance in the argument urged on behalf of the 1st Respondent rely ing upon the judgment of this Court in Roshan Lal Tandon vs Union of India; , which lays down that when employees are 214 recruited to a lower grade from two sources no favourable treatment should be extended to recruits from one source on their promotion to the higher grade.
The scheme of the sections in Chapter IV indicates generally that Parliament has appointed the Cen tral Government as the effective and direct instrumentality for bringing about the transfer and integration in the different sectors of that process.
Their complaint was that the Rules created, without any valid justification, two cadres, the State cadre and the provincialised cadre, the former including not only the Government School teachers but also those recruited after October 1, 1957 and posted in the provincialised schools; that by reason of having two cadres and providing for both a uniform 15 per cent for selection grade posts, coupled with making the provincialised cadre a diminishing one, the result had been that teachers deemed to have been appointed to the State cadre with effect from October 1, 1957 and even those recruited thereafter had been promoted to the selec tion grade, while those in the provincialised cadre, though senior in service and performed identical duties and had identical scales of pay, remained in the ordinary grade.
The decision of this Court in Workmen of the Bharat Petrole um 222 Corporation Ltd. (Refining Division) Bombay vs Bharat Petro leum Corporation Ltd. and Another, ; no doubt lays down that under the modern conditions there is a general trend in favour of raising the age of retirement in the case of employees in industrial establishments.
We may at this stage refer to the following passage in Tamil Nadu Education Department Ministerial & General Subor dinate Service Association vs State of Tamil Nadu & Anr., ; "In Service Jurisprudence integration is a complicated administrative problem where, in doing broad justice to many, some bruise to a few cannot be ruled out.
In the view of the majority in that case the two cadres started as independent services, they were never integrated into one service and, therefore, the dissimilarity of the treatment by the Rules was not a denial Of equal opportunity.
We do not also find much substance in the contention of the 1st Respondent that there cannot be any discrimination as regards the age of retirement between the employees belonging to Class I and Class II on the one hand and Class III and Class IV on the other.
" While we agree with the first part of the observations made in the above extract from the judgment of the High Court, namely, that it was not discriminatory to extend the benefit of the age of 60 years to the transferred employees, we do not agree with the latter part of the observations made therein which suggests that on promotion from Class III to Class I the transferred employees and the directly re cruited employees would lose their birth marks.
