The purpose of Fundamental Rules 56(j) is to confer power on the appropriate authority to compulsorily retire Government servant in the public interest and the classification of Government servants into two categories covered by sub clauses (i) and (ii) has a purpose behind it.
If the condi tion indicated in sub clause (i) is satisfied, namely, the Government servant is in Class I or Class II service or post and he had entered into service before attaining the age of 35 years, and has attained the age of fifty, the further condition that he must substantively belong to the two classes of service or post cannot be introduced into the scheme.
When this was put to learned Additional Solicitor General he agreed that the Union of India will have no objection to treat the petitioner alike and would be prepared to give the same relief to the petitioner.
6251 & 8189 OF 1981 Each of the petitioners in these two writ applications under Article 32 of the Constitution was employed in the Central Public Works Department in the Ministry of Works and Housing of Government of India and has been compulsorily retired under Fundamental Rule 56(j).
But the correct ness thereof is disputed by learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India and that is why this writ petition was directed to be heard by a larger Bench.
The purpose of the sub clauses is to classify Gov ernment servants into two categories and sub clause (i) takes within its sweep those Government servants who at the relevant time are in Class I or Class II service or post, whether substantively, temporarily or on officiating basis.
It has been represented to us by counsel for the petitioner that the similarly placed persons had gone before the Delhi High Court challenging the orders of compulsory retirement and the Delhi High Court relying upon Tahiliani 's case give them relief.
Accordingly, we allow the.writ petition and direct the respondent to pay to the petitioner the salary and other allowances which would have been payable for the period between 5.11.
It is clear that sub clause (ii) is the general rule applicable to all Government servants and sub clause (i) carves out a class of Government servants into a category and makes a special provision.
We have already indicated that sub clause (ii) did not apply to the facts of this case as the petitioner had not attained the age of 55 years by the date of the order.
Instances are abundant where officers are promoted to Class I or Class II service or post of such class on officiating basis and such officiation lasts for a number of years.
They would, however, be entitled to salary and other service allowances payable to them from the date of compulsory retirement till the date of their normal superannuation.
We would accordingly hold that the ratio of the decision in Tahiliani 's case is not correct and sub clause (i) of Rule 56(j) applies to Government servants in Class I or Class II service or post on substantive, temporary or offi ciating basis.
If the officia tion is not brought to an end by reverting the Government servant to his substantive post before the power of compul sory retirement is exercised, the Government servant con cerned must be taken to be in Class I or Class II service or post at the relevant time and would come within the ambit of sub clause (i).
Learned counsel for the petitioner does not dispute the position that a person who is in Class I or Class II service or post is in such service or post as covered by sub clause (i).
The observations made in Tahiliani 's case indisputably support the petitioner.
Officiating promotion certainly does not confer a right to the post and at any time the Government servant may be sent back to his substantive post.
H.L.C. Petition allowed.
On this conclusion the writ petition is liable to be dismissed.
Such judgments have become final and Union of India has given effect to the decisions of the Delhi High Court.
Even if the writ petition is allowed and the order of compulsory retirement is set aside the petitioner cannot go back to service.
WRIT PETITION NOS.
1976 and 29.2.
Such payment be made within two months from today.
