(b) was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations, as suggested.
The High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum 's case obviously fell into an error in seeking to curtail the ambit of section 630(l)(b) by giving a restrictive meaning to the terms 'officer or employee ' which must take its colour from the context in which it appears.
He had been inducted into the flat only by virtue of his capacity as the General Manager of the company 's branch office at Bombay but the company allowed him to retain the same on humanitarian grounds for a short period after his retirement to enable him to find alternative accommodation.
(b) contemplates a case where an officer or employee of a company having any property of a company in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the 176 articles and authorised by the Act.
This humanitarian and charitable consideration shown by the company was reciprocated by the petitioner by adopting H 178 an adamant attitude and he declined to vacate the same on one pretext or another.
By a curious process of reasoning, the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum 's case held that section 630 of the Act applies only to the existing officers and employees and not to those whose employment has been terminated.
(iii) The entitlement of an officer to the property of the company is contingent on the right and capacity of the officer by virtue of his employment which is transformed into the actual possession of the property and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment.
(b) also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
Further, whenever the framers of the law in their wisdom thought it proper to bring within the mischief of the provisions of the Act former officers or employees of a company, they did not hesitate to do so and they expressly legislated.
The petitioner there was the General Manager of a company known as the English Electrical Company of India Limited, a company incorporated under the having its registered office at Calcutta.
In particular, the learned judge referred to section 538 which provides for prosecution for offences by officers of companies in liquidation and uses the expression 'a past or present officer of a company etc. ', as also section 545 which provides for prosecution of delinquent officers and members of a company during the course of winding up and uses the words 'any past or present officer etc. ' Upon that basis, he observed that there was no reason to give a twisted and laboured interpretation to the provisions of section 630 of the Act which its plain reading does not permit.
While the existence of the capacity, right and possession would be during employment, the withholding may be even after the termination of the employment and though the possession as it precedes the act of retention or withholding may be rightful in the past affording an 179 Opportunity to withhold, the withholding may be wrongful as in the present case.
(a), namely, where an officer or employee of a company wrongfully obtains possession of any property of the company during the course of his employment, to which he is not entitled.
Section 630 of the Act plainly makes it an offence if an officer or employee of the company who was permitted to use any property of the company during his employment, wrongfully retains or occupies the same after the termination of his employment.
(a) and (b) are separated by the word 'or ' which must in the context in which it appears be read as 'and ' and so construed, must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
" In Govind T. Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi, (supra), Kanade, J. fol lowed the critical analysis of section 630 made by Kotwal, J. as above, and observed that the entitlement of an officer to the property of the company and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment and the right would stand extinguished with the termination to the employment giving rise to an obligation to hand over the property back to the company, and observed: "If the property is held back, the retained possession would amount to wrongful withholding of the property of the company.
In somewhat similar facts, an officer of Messrs Jardine Hendersons Limited who had been placed in possession of a furnished flat in premises No. 27, Ballygunj Park, Calcutta as a condition of his service, wrongfully retained possession thereof after ceasing to be an officer of the company.
On a careful analysis of section 630 held that the provisions of the section apply not only to the present officers and employees of the company but also to past officers and employees, and observed: "It is held that the features and deductions which flow logically and inescapably on an analysis of section 630 are that: (i) Clause (a) of the section is self contained and independent of cl.
We accordingly uphold the view of the High Court of Bombay that the terms 'officer or employee ' of a company applies not only to existing officers or employees but also to past officers or employees if such officer or employee either (a) wrongfully obtains possession of any property, or (b) having obtained such property during the course of his employment, withholds the same after the termination of his employment.
(1) of section 630 is the preservation of the property of a company by the creation of two distinct offences by clauses (a) and (b) which arise under different sets of circumstances, and it would be rendered nugatory by projecting cl.
The Court repelled the contention that section 630 of the Act applies only to the existing officers and employees of the company and not to former officers and employees, and that the phrase 'any such property ' used in cl.
