He referred us to the decision of this Court in the case of Associated 1066 Hotels of India Ltd. vs R.N. Kapoor, ; where at page 383 this Court noted that there was a marked distinction between a lease and a licence.
This Court referred to the well known decision in the case of Errington vs Errington, ; where Lord Denning reviewing the case law on the subject summarized the position as follows: "The result of all these cases is that, although a person who is let into exclusive possession is, prima facie, to be considered to be tenant, nevertheless he will not be held to be so if the circumstances negative any intention to create a tenancy." The Court of Appeal in England again in Cobb vs Lane, considered the legal position and laid down that the intention of the parties was the real test for ascertaining the character of a document.
To put precisely if an interest in immovable property entitling the transferee to enjoyment was created, it was a lease; if permission to use land without exclusive possession was alone granted, a licence was the legal result.
In determining whether an agreement creates between the parties the relationship of landlord and tenant or merely that of licensor and licensee the decisive consideration is the intention of the parties.
It was further held that a person continuing in possession of the premises after termination, withdrawal or revocation of the licence continued to occupy it was a trespasser or a person who had no semblance of any right to continue in occupation of the premises.
It was futher held that a person continuing in occupation of such premises after revocation of the licence was still liable to pay compensation or damages for its use and occupation.
It was further held that filing an application under section 41 of the 1065 might in certain circumstances have the effect of putting an end to the licence if it was subsisting on the date of its filing.
It was further held that it was right that the Court should act in consonance with the spirit of the Maharashtra Amending Act 17 of 1973, but the Court cannot and should not cast the law to the winds or twist or stretch it to a breaking point amounting to almost an absurdity.
The Bombay High Court in Miss Mani J. Desai vs M/s. Gayson & Co. Pvt. Ltd., 73 Bombay Law Reporter 394 had held that the Court of Small Causes would have no jurisdiction to proceed with the application filed under section 41 of the .
This decision was approved in appeal by this Court in Sohan Lal Naraindas vs Laxmidas Raghunath Gadit, where this Court reiterated that the test of exclusive possession was important point.
good deal of submission was made before us that if it was a lease and not a licence, then this point could be taken in aid of the submission that the Court had to jurisdiction, and there was no estoppel.
This Court emphasised the if the exclusive possession to which a person was entitled under an agreement with a landlord was coupled with an interest in the property, the agreement would be construed not as a mere licence but as a lease.
The High Court allowed the revision on the ground that the licence was not put an end to by the appellants and that in any event by filing the application for eviction the appellant licensor had granted an implied licence to the respondent licensee to continue in possession till a decree of eviction was passed in his favour.
In the aforesaid view of the matter, we are clearly of the opinion that in view of the intention of the parties in the document and the facts and circumstances of this case, it was a licence and not a lease.
If he was such a licensee, the non obstante clause of section 15A(1) give him the status and protection of a tenant in spite of there being anything to the contrary in any other law or in contract.
It was observed that the finding of the High Court that the respondent was in occupation of the premises under a subsisting licence was wholly wrong and suffered from serious infirmities of law and fact and deserved to be set aside.
