In Randhir Singh vs Union of India & Others [I982] 3 SCR 298 Chinnappa Reddy, J. said (at 304): PG NO 300 "It is true that the principle of `equal pay for equal work ' is not expressly declared by our Constitution to be a fundamental right.
Indeed, by reason of their investiture with the 'powers, functions and privileges of PG NO 301 a police officer ', their duties and responsibilities were found to be more arduous.
No attempt was made to sustain the scales of pay for the post of Professor on the doctrine of classification because the classification of existing incum bents as being distinct and separate from newly recruited hand with flimsy change in essential qualification would be wholly irrational and arbitrary.
" In Surinder Singh vs Engineer in Chief, CPWD, , the case of poor daily wage workers employed for serveral years by the Central Public Works Department CPWD came up for consideration before this Court.
" In the words of Shelat and Grover, JJ (at para 596): "The dominent objective in view was to ameliorate and improve the lot of the common man and to bring about a socio economic justice." In matters of employment the Government of a socialist State must protect the weaker sections.
We may make it clear that this decision of ours shall not affect the Bench Secretaries to get that pay scale accordingly with effect from January 1, 1986.
The higher qualifications for the higher grade, which may be either academic qualifications or experience based on length of service reasonably sustain the classification of the officers into two grades with different scales of pay.
Apart from that, higher pay scale to avoid stag PG NO 304 nation or resultant frustration for lack of promotional avenues is very common in career service.
The fact that these employees accepted employment with full knowledge that they will be paid only daily wages and they will not get the same salary and conditions of service as other class IV employees, cannot provide an escape to the Central Government to avoid the mandate of equality enshrined in article 14 of the Constitution.
In All lndia Customs and Central Excise Stenographers Recognised) and Others vs Union of India and Others, [1988] 2 Judgments Today SC p. 5 19, Sabyasachi Mukherjee, J. said: "There may be qualitative difference as regards relia bility and responsibility.
Can it be said that it would be violative of the right to equality guaranteed under the Connstitution? It was argued for the respondents that it offends the constitutional principle of "equal pay for equal work".
This Court while granting relief to the workmen observed (at 642) : "The Central Government, the State Government and likewise, all public sector undertakings are expected to function like model and enlightened employers and arguments such as those which were advanced before us that the principle of equal pay for equal work is an abstract doctrine which cannot be enforced in a court of law should ill come from the mouths of the State and State Undertakings.
Directive Principles,as has been pointed out in some of the judgments of this Court have to be read into the fundamental rights as a matter of interpretation.
vs State of U.P., , this Court found fault with the Central Government for not giving the casual workers engaged in Nehru Yuvak the same salary and conditions of service as enjoyed by class IV employees regularly appointed against sanctioned posts.
in Keshavananda Bharati vs State of Kerala, [1973] 4 SCC 225 at para 712: "The Constitution seeks to fulfil the basic needs of the common man and to change the structure of society.
O. Chinnappa Reddy, J. observed that the classification of officers into two grades with different scales of pay based either on academic qualification or experience on length of service is sustainable.
It was found that the petitioner and the other drivers in the Delhi Police Force per formed the same functions and duties as other drivers in the service of the Delhi Administration and the Central Government.
It was directed that the driver constables of Delhi Police Force should be given the scale of pay at least on par with that of drivers of the Railway Protection Force.
The petitioners therein were holding the posts of Professors in the Indian Veterinary Research Institute under the Indian Council of Medical Research.
vs State of Haryana, WP No. 455 and connected petitions of 1987 of DD 2.6.1988 and Y.K. Mehta vs UOI, WP No. 1239 of 1979 and connected petitions DD 26.8.1988.
This Court accepted the contention and observed (page 163): "The case in hand is a glaring example of discriminat tory treatment accorded to old, experienced and highly qualified hands with an evil eye and unequal hand and the guarantee of equality in all its pervasive character must enable this Court to remove discrimination and to restore fair play in action.
It is now well established that the classification can be based on some qualities or characteristics of persons grouped together and not in others who are left out.
The quantity of work may be the same, but quality may be different that cannot be determined by PG NO 299 relying upon averments in affidavits of interested parties.
They demanded parity in their wages, and allowances with those of regular and permanent employees of the Department on the basis of performing similar work.
Several decisions of this Court were relied upon in support of the proposition. "Equal pay for equal work for both men and women" has been accepted as a "constitutional goal" capable of being achieved through constitutional remedies.
The case of the petitioners for being put in the revised scale of Rs. 1100 1600 from the date on which newly created posts of Professors in sister disciplines in IVRI and other institutes were created and filled up in revised scale is unanswerable and must be cunceded " In P. Savita vs Union of lndia, the artificial division of senior draftsmen in the Ministry of Defence Production with unequal scales of pay for the same work was struck down.
