This power has been conceded to the cou rt in Union of India vs Tulsiram Patel, ; whe re Madon, J., observed (at 501 502): "Where a disciplinary authority comes to know th at a government servant has been convicted on a crimin al charge, it must consider whether his conduct which has l ed to his conviction was such as warrants the imposition of a penalty and, if so, what that penalty should be . . 35 "The disciplinary authority must, however, bear in mind th at a conviction on a criminal charge does not automatical ly entail dismissal, removed or reduction in rank of the co n cerned government servant.
The principle that if some of the reasons relied on by a Tribunal for its conclusion tu rn out to be extraneous or otherwise unsustainable, its dec i sion would be vitiated, applies to cases in which the co n clusion is arived at not on assessment of objective sati s faction.
He however, contended that eliminating the irrel e vant material employed by the Tribunal in arriving at i ts conclusion, there was sufficient material on which t he finding of fact could be supported.
Where there are some relevant materials whi ch the authority has accepted and which materials may reason a bly support the conclusion that the officer is guilty, it is not the function of the High Court exercising its jurisdi c tion under article 226 to review the materials and to arrive at an independent finding on the materials.
The constitutional guarantee afforded to a publ ic servant is that he shall not be dismissed or removed by an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed, a nd that he shall not be dismissed or removed or reduced in ra nk until he has been given a reasonable opportunity of showi ng cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him.
The reason is that whereas in cases where t he decision is based on subjective satisfaction if some of t he reasons turn out to be irrelevant or invalid, it would be impossible for a superior court to find out which of t he reasons, relevant or irrelevant, valid or invalid, h ad brought about such satisfaction.
Ordinarily, whe re the disciplinary enquiry is shown to have been held in violation of principles of natural justice, the enqui ry would be vitiated and the order based on such enquiry wou ld be quashed with liberty to hold fresh enquiry.
Where the person, without enquiry is di s missed, removed or reduced in rank solely on the basis of conviction by a criminal court, the Tribunal may examine t he adequacy of the penalty imposed in the light of the convi c tion and sentence inflicted on the person.
Mr. Mah a jan, learned counsel for the Central Government urged th at the Tribunal has no powers to interfere with the punishme nt imposed by the disciplinary authority on the ground that it is disproportionate to the proved misdemeanour.
If the High Court is satisfied that if some but not all of t he findings of the Tribunal were "unreasonable", the order of the Governor on whose powers by the rules no restrictions in determining the appropriate punishment are placed, w as final, and the High Court had no jursidiction to direct t he Governor to review the penalty, for as we have alrea dy observed the order of dismissal passed by a competent a u thority on a public servant, if the conditions of the co n stitutional protection have been complied with, is n ot justifiable.
The High Court was, in our judgment, in error in directing the Governor of Orissa to reconsider t he question." In Dhirajlal Girdharilal vs Commissioner of Income ta x, AIR 1956 SC 271, Mehar Chand Mahajan, C.J., while deali ng with a reference application against an order of Income T ax Tribunal under the Indian Income Tax Act had struck slight ly a different note (at 273): "The learned Attorney General frankly conced ed that it could not be denied that to a certain extent t he Tribunal had drawn upon its own imagination and had made u se of a number of surmises and conjectures in reaching i ts result.
There was, in our view, legal eviden ce before the Commissioner upon which he was entitled to re st his finding that the copies relied on by the appellant we re not genuine." The view taken in Bidyabhushan case has been repeated ly affirmed and reiterated in Railway Board vs Niranjan Sing h; , at 552; O.P. Gupta case AIR 1970 SC 679 a nd Union of India vs Sardar Bahadur, A ny doubts as to the incapacity of the Court to review t he merits of the penalty must vanish when we read the remar ks of Mathew, J., in Sardar Bahadur 's case (at 225): "A disciplinary proceeding is not a criminal tria l.
We must unequivocally state that the jurisdiction of t he Tribunal to interfere with the disciplinary matters or punishment cannot be equated with an appellate jurisdictio n.
An administrative or quasi judicial order bas ed on several grounds, all taken together, cannot be sustain ed if it be found that some of the grounds are non existent or irrelevant, and there is nothing to show that the authori ty would have passed the order on the basis of the other rel e vant and existing grounds.
The Tribun al also cannot interfere with the penalty if the conclusion of the Inquiry Officer or the competent authority is based on evidence even if some of it is found to be irrelevant or extraneous to the matter.
This Court, aft er considering the matter was of opinion that the appella nt therein was not offered a reasonable opportunity to defe nd himself and accordingly the enquiry and consequential ord er of 34 removal from service were found to be bad.
