The effect of this change obviously was th at now only fifty per cent vacancis in the post of Depu ty Collector being available in place of all the vacancies it was to take almost double the time for many other allocat ed Tehsildars to get promoted as Deputy Collectors.
The said Annexure further indicates that o ut of the 1175 recruits about 625 were promoted to the post of Chargeman II in 1965 66 under the 2 year policy contained in circular dated 6th November, 1962 and that approximately 5 50 diploma holders were denied promotion which resulted in discrimination.
It appears that the remaining 50 diploma holde rs recruited in 1963 and those who had been recruited in t he begning of 1964 or thereafter could not be promoted inasmu ch as by the time their cases could be considered for promoti on the subsequent order dated 28th December, 1965 had come in to force and had also come into force the circular dated 20 th January, 1966 which had superseded the circular dated 6 th November, 1962 and had provided that in future promotions of all such individuals will be effected in accordance with t he normal rules and not merely on the completion of two yea rs satisfactory continuous service.
At the most they would be entitled to refixation of the ir present salary on the basis of the notional seniority gran t ed to them in different grades so that their present sala ry is not less than those who are immediately below them.
" In so far as Supervisors 'A ' who claimed promotion as Chargeman 11 the following direction was accordingly giv en by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in its judgment dated 4 th April, 1983 aforesaid: "All these petitioners are also entitled to be treated as Chargeman Grade II on completion of two years satisfacto ry service as Supervisor Grade A. Consequently, notion al seniority of these persons have to be refixed in Supervis or Grade A, Chargeman Grade II, Grade I and Assistant Forem an in cases of those who are holding that post . .
The ord er dated 28th December, 1965 which provided a minimum period of service of three years in the lower grade for promotion to the next higher grade and the circular dated 20th Janua ry 1966 which provided that promotions in future will be e f fected in accordance with the normal rules and not merely on completion of 2 years ' satisfactory continuous service h ad the effect of doing away with the accelerated chance of promotion and relegating Supervisors 'A ' in the matter of promotion to the normal position as it obtained under t he Rules.
Soraasundararn Viswanath & Ors., [198 8] 3 S.C. Judgments Today 724 wherein it has been held: "It is well settled that the norms regarding recruitment a nd promotion of officers belonging to the Civil Services can be laid down either by a law made by the appropriate Legisl a ture or by rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India or by means of executive instru c tions issued under Article 73 of the Constitution of Ind ia in the case of Civil Services under the Union of India a nd under Article 162 of the Constitution of India in the ca se of Civil Services under the State Governments.
The grievance of the petitio n ers, however, is that this promotion tantamounts to impl e mentation of the order of this Court dated 2nd Februar y, 1981 only on paper inasmuch as they have not been grant ed the difference of back wages and promotion to higher pos ts on the basis of their back date promotion as Chargeman I I.
As already noticed earlier certain writ petitions filed in Madhya Pradesh High Court were allowed by that Court on 4 th April, 1983 relying on the judgment of this Court dated 2 nd February, 1981 in Civil Appeal No. 441 of 1981.
The Civil Miscellaneous Petitions in Civil Appe al No. 441 of 1981 are disposed of by issuing a direction to the respondents to give the appellants in the said Civ il Appeal the same benefits as were given by the Madhya Prade sh High Court to such of the petitioners before that Court w ho were Supervisors 'A ' and were granted promotion as Chargem an II by its judgment dated 4th April, 1983.
Petition No. 596 of 1978 had disallowed t he relief for the petitioners of that writ petition bei ng treated as Chargeman II on completion of two years ' servi ce as Supervisor 'A ' by its order dated 16th April, 1979 as is apparent from the said judgment dated 4th April, 1983 b ut the subse 106 quent writ petitions which seem to have been filed after t he decision of this Court dated 2nd February, 1981 in Civ il Appeal No. 441 of 1981 were allowed in view of the aforesa id decision of this Court.
Rule 12 provides 104 that no appointment to the posts to which these rules app ly shall be made otherwise than, as specified in these rule section This right of promotion as provided by the Rules was neith er affected nor could be affected by the circular.
This right was co n ferred by Rule 7 which inter alia provides that subject to the exception contained in Rule 11, vacancies in the pos ts enumerated therein will normally be filled by promotion of employees in the grade immediately below in accordance wi th the provisions of Rule 8.
It wa s, inter alia, urged on behalf of the petitioners that t he situation brought about by the rules of July 30, 1959 co n stituted variation to their prejudice in the conditions of service applicable to them immediately prior to the reorga n isation of the State and the Rules were consequently i n valid.
If there is a conflict between the executive instructions and the rul es made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, the rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India prevail, and if there is a co n flict between the rules made under the proviso to Artic le 309 of the Constitution of India and the law made by t he appropriate Legislature, the law made by the appropria te Legislature prevails.
In the case of Ramchandra Shankar Deodhar & Ors ., (supra) the petitioners and other allocated Tehsildars fr om ex Hyderabad State had under the Notification of the R aj Pramukh dated September 15, 1955 all the vacancies in t he posts of Deputy Collector in the ex Hyderabad State avai l able to them for promotion but under subsequent rules of July 30, 1959 fifty per cent of the vacancies were to be filled by direct recruitment and only the remaining fif ty per cent were available for promotion and that too on div i sional basis.
Apparently, after t he coming into force of the 107 order dated 28th December, 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January, 1966 promotions could not be made just on compl e tion of 2 years ' satisfactory service under the earli er circular dated 6th November, 1962 the same having be en superseded by the later circular.
It is further obvious th at in this view of the matter Supervisors 'A ' who had be en promoted before the coming into force of the order dat ed 28th December, 1965 and the circular dated 20th Januar y, 1966 stood in a class separate from those whose promotio ns were to be made thereafter.
The fact that some Superviso rs 'A ' had been promoted before the coming into force of t he order dated 28th December, 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January, 1966 could not, therefore, constitute the basis f or an argument that those Supervisors 'A ' whose cases came up for consideration for promotion thereafter and who we re promoted in due course in accordance with the rules we re discriminated against.
It may also be noticed that even though the petitione rs on their completion of 2 years ' service as Supervisor ' A ' were not promoted as Chargeman 11 in or about the year 19 66 they chose to wait for about 17 years to file these wr it petitions which were filed in 1983, and nearly 2 years ev en after the decision dated 2nd February, 1981 in Civil Appe al No. 441 of 1981, which indicates that but for the decisi on in Civil Appeal No. 441 of 1981 they would perhaps not ha ve even thought of filing these writ petitions inasmuch as in the meantime they had not only been promoted in the norm al course as Chargeman 1I but some of them had been promot ed even to higher posts in the hierarchy.
It h as further been stated therein that after the newly creat ed posts were thus filled by promotion, chances of promotion of those who were appointed subsequently diminished and f or want of sufficient number of 108 vacancies as Chargeman II they could not be promoted to th at post soon after the completion of 2 years ' service.
