So long as such value judgment is made bona fide, reasonably on an intelligible criterion which has a rational nexus with the object of dif ferentiation, such differentiation will not amount to discrimination.
By the general description of their job, one cannot come to the conclusion that every carpenter or craftsmen is equal to the other in the performance of his work.
As to the claim for regularisation of services of the peti tioners, 669 we express no opinion, since the factual data is disputed and is insufficient.
Apart from that, the Court has expressly observed that the higher pay scale to avoid stagnation or resultant frustration for lack of promotional avenues may also be allowed.
But the Court held that the principle of equal pay for equal work cannot be invoked invariably in every kind of service particularly in the area of professional services.
It was also held 667 that it is open to the State to classify employees on the basis of qualifications, duties and responsibilities of the posts concerned.
Reference may also be made to the decision in Federation of All India Customs and Central Excise Stenographers (Recognised) vs Union of India, ; There the Personal Assistants and Stenographers attached to the Heads of Department in Customs and Central Excise Department of the Ministry of Finance made a claim for parity of wages with the Personal Assistants and Stenographers attached to Joint Secretaries and Officers above them in Ministry of Finance.
In the first place, even assum ing that the petitioners ' jobs are comparable with the counterparts in the government service, the petitioners cannot enforce the right to "equal pay for equal work".
He claimed pay scale admissible to "Senior Speech Pathologist", "Senior Physiotherapist", "Senior Occupational Therapist", "Audiologist", and "Speech Pathologist".
His case was based on the allegations that he was discharging same duties and performing similar functions as "Senior Speech Therapist", "Senior Physiotherapist", "Senior Occupa tional Therapist", "Audiologist" and "Speech Pathologist".
Unless it is shown that there is a discrimination amongst the same set of employees by the same master in the same establishment, the principle of "equal pay for equal work" cannot be enforced.
Meva Ram Kanojia is the most recent decision which has exhaustively dealt with all the principles bearing on the question of equal pay for equal work in the light of all the previous decisions of this Court.
If the classification has reasonable nexus with the objective sought to be achieved, efficiency in the administration, the State would be justified in prescribing different pay scales.
The Court, therefore, cannot direct the Corporation to apply the rates prescribed under exhibit P. 2 unless the Government makes it applicable to employees of the Corporation.
But it follows naturally that equal pay for unequal work will be a negation of that right." Thus the law relating to equal pay for equal work has been practically hammered out and very little remains for further innovation.
One cannot deny that often the difference is a matter of degree and that there is an element of value judgment by those who are charged with the administration in fixing the scales of pay and other conditions of service.
A comparison cannot be made with counterparts in other establishments with different management, or even in establishments in different geographical locations though owned by the same master.
