It would create an absurd situation if durable packing supplied by the assessee and returnable to the assessee is not to be included in the assessable value but a durable packing supplied by the buyer to the assessee and returnable to the buyer is made a part of the assessable value.
It is apparent from the wide language, according to the learned Chief Justice, of Explanation to section 4(4)(d)(i) that every kind of container in which it can be said that the excisable goods are contained would be 'packing ' within the meaning of the Explanation.
The object and purpose of the levy, the meaning of the expression 'assessable value ' as interpreted in section before its amendment cou pled with the now well established position that the amend ment intended to make no change in this position, the use of the word "cost" rather than "value", the nature of the other payments referred to in sub clause (ii) all these show beyond doubt that, while generally the normal price for which the goods are sold at the factory gate is to be taken as the assessable value, an addition thereto has to be made where, in addition to the price, the manufacturer levies a charge for the packing which is intrinsically and inevitably incidental to placing the manufactured goods on the market.
For this reason, I agree with Rangana than, J. that the wider propositions canvassed by the two sides including the question of correctness of the view relating to secondary packing taken in Union of India vs Godfrey Phillips India Ltd., raised by the learned Attorney General need not be considered and decided in these matters.
It was held by Pathak, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) that such cost of corrugated fibreboard containers could not be in cluded in the determination of "value" in section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Act for the purposes of excise duty.
A.N. Sen, J., who agreed with Pathak, J., observed that on a proper construction of section 4(4)(d)(i), it was clear that any secondary packing done for the purpose of facilitating transport and smooth transit of the goods to be delivered to the buyer in the wholesale trade could not be included in the value for the purpose of assessment of excise duty.
Chief Justice Bhag wati, on the other hand, held that corrugated fibreboard containers in which the cigarettes were contained fell within the definition of 'packing ' in the Explanation to section 4(4)(d)(i) and if these formed part of the packing in which the goods were packed when delivered at the time of removal, then under section 4(4)(d)(i) read with the Expla nation, the cost of such corrugated fibreboard containers would be liable to be included in the value of cigarettes.
If they are generally sold in the wholesale market at the factory gate in a certain packed condition, whatever may be the reason for such packing, the cost of such packing would be includible in the value of the goods for assessment to excise duty.
The Tribunal was in error in holding that as at the time of removal, goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable to by the buyer, the value of the drums is to be included.
It is reiterated that in order to be deliverable, it is not necessary that the goods should be delivered in packed condition and that the containers were not necessary to make the goods marketable.
From these tanks the goods were removed directly and placed in vehicles for their movement for 90% of the sales, the vehicle of removal was tankers and 10% of the sales, the vehicle of removals was drums.
In the premises, the value of the drums with regard to the fusel oil/styrene monomer irrespective of whether these were supplied by the assessee or not, are not includible in the assessable value of the Styrene Monomer.
But the test to determine whether the cost of any particular kind of secondary packing is liable to be included in the value of the article is whether a particular kind of packing is done in order to put the goods in the condition in which they are generally sold in the wholesale 991 market at the factory gate.
I am of the opinion that the views expressed by the majority of the learned Judges were correct and it appears, with respect, that the observations of Chief Justice Bhag wati were not consistent with the judgment of this Court in Bombay Tyre International (supra) at p. 379.
RANGANATHAN, J I have perused the judgment proposed to be delivered by my learned brother Sabyasachi Mukharji, J. I agree with the conclusion arrived at by him but I would like to rest it entirely on the language of section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Central Excises & Salt Act, 1944, without going into the larger questions raised by counsel and dealt with by my learned brother.
I agree that the cost of packing envisaged in section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Act for determining the "value" in rela tion to any excisable goods is only the "cost of such pack ing" incurred by the manufacturer and recovered from the buyer except where the packing is of a durable nature and is returnable by the buyer to the manufacturer.
This construction of the expres sion "cost of such packing" in section 996 4(4)(d)(i) of the Act clearly excludes in these matters the question of its addition to the price of goods recovered by the manufacturer from the buyer for determining the "value" in relation to the excisable goods for computing the duty payable on it.
It is only that degree of secondary packing which is necessary for assessable articles to be in the condition in which it is generally sold in the wholesale market which can be included at the factory gate which should be included in the value of the article.
There was no dispute that the cost of primary packing into packets of 10 and 20 and the cost of secondary packing in cartons/ outers must be included in determining the value of the cigarettes for the purpose of assessment of excise duty, since such packing would fall under section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Act.
It was perfectly conceivable that the whole sale dealer who took delivery might have his depot at a very short distance only from the factory gate or might have such transport arrangements available that damage or injury to the cigarettes could be avoided.
However, if any special secondary packing is provided by the assessee at the in stance of a wholesale buyer which is not generally provided as a normal feature of the wholesale trade, the cost of such special packing would not be includible in the value of the goods.
Pathak, J., as the Hon 'ble Chief Justice was then, observed whether it is necessary for putting the cigarettes in the conditions in which they were sold in the wholesale market or at the factory gate.
It was conceivable that the wholesale dealer who takes delivery might have its depot at a very short distance only from the factory gate or may have such transport arrangements available that damage or injury to the cigarettes could be avoided.
It is only that degree of secondary packing which is necessary for the assessable article to be placed in the condition in which it is sold in the wholesale market at the factory gate which can be in cluded in the assessable value of the article.
If on the other hand, the manufacturer asks the customer to bring his own container and does not charge anything therefore then the cost (or value) of the packing cannot be "notionally" added to, or subtracted from, the price at which the goods have been sold by the manufacturer.
Hence, there was no logic or reason for not excluding the value of packing material supplied by the buyer himself which is of durable nature and is return able by the assessee to the buyer.
There is ample internal indication in the statute to show that the cost of packing referred to in the above clause is the cost of packing incurred by the manufac turer and recovered by him from the purchaser whether as part of the sale price or separately.
There will be no question of separate addition to the sale price nor can the assessee claim a deduction of the cost of packing from the sale price except where the con tainer is a durable one and is returnable to the manufactur er.
It has to be borne in mind that the scheme of old section 4 of the Act and new section 4 is the same as was held by this Court in the case of Bombay Tyre International, (supra) at pages 376 E F, 377 H and 378 A B, H of the Report.
Shri Harish Salve, arguing for the appellants, con tended that the cost of packing referred to in section 4(4)(d)(i) is such cost incurred by a manufacturer and not the cost of packing borne by the buyer.
The question that arose was whether the cost of final packing in corrugated fibreboard containers 990 would be liable to be included in the value of the ciga rettes for the purpose of assessment to excise duty.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., (supra) dealing with the aspect of secondary packing, where this Court reiterated that the degree of secondary packing which is necessary for putting the excisable article in which it is sold in the wholesale market at the factory was the degree of packing where the cost would be included in the value of the goods for the purpose of excise duty.
If the manufacturer supplies the drums and charges the customers separately therefore, then, under section 4(4)(d)(i), the cost of the drums to the buyer has to be added to the price except where the packing is of durable nature and is to be returned to the manufacturer.
It has to be borne in mind that such a provision would make the provision really unworkable, since in making the assessment of the seller, there is no machinery for ascertaining the "cost" of the packing which might be supplied by the buyer.
To con strue new section 4 as now suggested would amount to depart ing from this concept and replacing it with the concept of a notional value comprising of the wholesale cash price plus certain notional charges.
It has also to be borne in mind that in any event in so far as Styrene Monomer Oil is concerned, the value of the drums in which it is packed is not includible in the assess able value of the goods.
Even secondary packing would be within the terms of the Explanation, because such second ary packing would also constitute a wrapper or a container in which the excisable goods are wrapped or contained.
If this question is answered in the affirmative, then, in respect of the goods so sold, the cost of packing, whether incurred by the manufacturer or by the supplier, has to be automatically included in the assessable value if necessary, by addition to the sale price, except only where the packing is of durable nature and returnable to the manufacturer.
