The minerals belong to the Government and if anybody wants to have the right as a lessee to exploit the mines in question to the exclusion of all others and to remove the minerals with a view to making profit, he has to pay a royalty imposed in accordance with law.
If the executive or the administrative authority acts in an arbitrary manner, its action would be bad in law and liable to be struck down by the courts but the possibility of abuse of power or arbi trary exercise of power cannot invalidate the statute con ferring the power or the power which has been conferred by it.
Whoever is given an exclusive right to exploit a mine will have to pay some amount by way of return to the Govern ment of India as authorised by entry 50 of List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution.
The compe tent officer may grant such Parwana in the following priorities: (a) Individual families to Khanias belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes, who do physical work I of excavating minor mineral in the area applied for. 415 (b) Individual families of 'Khanias ' who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in the area applied for.
" Rule 33 C provides that the lease shall be granted for one year ending 31st December on a payment of a fee of Rs.50 for an area upto 1,000 square meters and Rs. 100 for an area above 1,000 square meters and upto 2,000 square meters.
Having regard to the depreci ation in the value of 413 the rupee and the increase in the cost of ' administration of the State, which is ever increasing, as a welfare State we cannot say that Rs.7 is an unreasonably high rate.
We have taken this view after going through the observations made by this Court in Trivedi 's case (supra) at page 544 where this Court has observed that where a statute confers discretion ary powers upon the executive or an administrative authori ty, the validity or constitutionality of such power cannot be judged on the assumption that the executive or such authority will act in an arbitrary manner in the exercise of the discretion conferred upon it.
Rule 33 B of the Rules reads thus: "33.B. Grant of quarrying Parwana On an application made to the competent officer, he may grant a quarrying Parwana to extract and remove from the specified area within his jurisdiction the minor mineral from a plot not exceeding 2,000 square meters, as may be specified by the competent officer.
We do not also agree with the contention that levying of royalty in the State of Gujarat on the minor minerals would impose in any way 416 the freedom guaranteed under Article 301 of the Constitution regarding movement of goods from one State to another for the activity of quarrying does not involve any movement as such.
It is obvious that a valid classification of persons and things for 414 purposes of imposing any obligation on them would not be violative of Article 14 provided the classification is a reasonable one.
It is equally clear that while levying a tax the authority con cerned is entitled to grant concessions and exemptions wherever necessary having regard to the purpose of the Act, the levy of royalty is incidental to the regulation and development of minerals.
