The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 4(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
The High Court thought that though the conviction under section 161 I.P.C. and section 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act is to be maintained, no separate sentence need be award ed under section 161 I.P.C.
" On a careful consideration of the facts and circum stances, we are not satisfied that the appellant had even by preponderance of probability succeeded in rebutting the presumption.
A fact is said to be proved when its existence is directly established or when upon the material before it the Court finds its existence to be so probable that a reasonable man would act on the supposition that it exists.
The words 'unless the contrary is proved ' which occur in this provision make it clear that the presumption has to be rebutted by 'proof ' and not by a bare explanation which is merely plausible.
This conduct of the appellant is clearly incon sistent with the transaction of loan or return of money by PW 1. 338 This Court observed in Dhanvantrai Balwantrai Desai vs State of Maharashtra, AIR 1964 SC 575 as under: "Where any gratification (other than legal gratification) or any valuable thing is proved to have been received by an accused person the court is required to draw a presumption that the person received that thing as a motive of reward such as is mentioned in section 161, I.P.C. Therefore, the Court has no choice in the matter, once it is established that the accused person has received a sum of money which was not due to him as a legal remuneration.
Of course, it is open to that person to show that though that money was not due to him as legal remuneration it was legally due to him in some other manner or that he had received it under a transaction or an arrangement which was lawful.
It was also urged that the appellant being new in the office could exert little influence on the Principal and the whole story is, therefore improbable.
The decisions of the Court in State of Rajasthan vs Mohamed Habeeb, ; C.I. Ernden vs State of Uttar Pradesh; , and Lohana Kantilal vs State, AIR 1954 Saurashtra 12 1 were referred to.
The case that has been developed in the course of the trial is not that of a loan transaction but payment of an advance of Rs. 125 in the canteen when the appellant started to take food there.
P 2 memo had been issued on the basis of the complaint received from the appellant that on getting the explanation from PW 1 he on 18.10.1975 itself passed orders and closed the file.
The burden resting on the accused person in such a case would not be as light as it is where a presumption is raised under section 114 of Evidence Act and cannot be held to be discharged merely by reason of the fact that the explanation offered by the accused is reasonable and probable.
