A tenant shall not be evicted whether in execution of a decree or otherwise except in 560 accordance with the provisions of this section or sections 14 to 16: Provided that nothing contained in the said sec tions shall apply to a tenant whose landlord is the Govern ment: Provided further that where the tenant denies the title of the landlord or claims right of permanent tenancy, the Controller shall decide whether the denial or claim is bona fide and if he records a finding to that effect, the landlord shall be entitled to sue for eviction of the tenant in a Civil Court and the Court may pass a decree for evic tion on any of the grounds mentioned in the said sections, notwithstanding that the Court finds that such denial does not involve forfeiture of the lease or that the claim is unfounded.
counsel contended that section 10 makes it clear beyond doubt that the Rent Controller is precluded from deciding any issue regarding title to the property and that, if any such question arises, he should leave it to be decided by ordi nary civil courts in appropriate proceedings.
In order to decide whether the denial of the landlord 's title by the tenant is bona fide, the Rent Controller may have to go into the tenant 's contentions on the issue but he is not to decide the question finally.
However, if the property is an inam village, whether the "inam village" is an "inam estate" is, within his exclusive jurisdiction and in regard to it the jurisdic tion of the Civil Courts is clearly barred.
It is unnecessary to refer in detail to this case except to set out a passage from pages 682 3 where Hidayatullah, C.J., speaking for the Constitution Bench, reviewed all earlier cases on the sub ject and enunciated the principles emerging therefrom, of which the following are relevant here: "The result of this inquiry into the diverse views expressed in this Court may be stated as follows,: (1) Where the statute gives a finality to the orders of the special tribunals, the Civil Courts ' jurisdic tion must be held to be excluded if there is adequate remedy to do what the Civil Courts would normally do in a suit.
In order to operate as res judicata the finding must be one disposing of a matter directly and substantially in issue in the former suit and the issue should have been heard and finally decided by the court trying such suit.
In a subsequent suit filed by the tenants in the civil court as tenants of the suit building, the landlady contended that the earlier decision operated as res judicata, but this contention was negatived.
In 1953 the plaintiff applied for a ryotwari patta in respect of this land after abolition of the Estate but the Addition al Settlement Officer, by order dated 25th June, 1954, took a decision that land was not a ryoti land but had been registered as a poramboke (village communal land) and, therefore, no one was entitled to ryotwari patta in respect of that land.
The plaintiff thereupon filed a suit for a declaration of as title and right to continue in possession and enjoyment of the suit land subject to payment of ryot wari or other cess to be imposed by Government without any interference from the Government.
The State Tamil Nadu resisted the suit on merits by contending that the suit land was communal land and that the assignment or grant by the zamindar 569 in favour of plaintiff was invalid.
The extensive jurisdiction conferred on civil courts under section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure should not be curtailed without a specific statu tory warrant or except on some clear principle.
It is possible, we have to ask ourselves, having regard to the context, scheme and terms of the legis lation, that the statute could have envisaged the Rent Controller (and the authorities to whom appeal or revision could be preferred from his orders) to be final authorities to adjudicate on issues of title also? The answer, in our opinion, has to be in the negative.
To give an obvious instance, suppose in a suit under section 55 for the grant of a patta instituted by a person claiming to be the adopted son of the ryot who was a patta dar, the landlord raises a plea that he is not entitled to the patta because his adoption is not valid, it may be that the revenue court would have to summarily go into the ques tion whether the person suing is or is not the validly adopted son of the previous ryot.
substantially the same issues as have been finally decided or as purport to have been finally decided in a former proceeding (i) under this Act, or (ii) under any other law from time to time in force before the date of the commencement of this Act and relating to matters dealt with in this Act.
Indeed, in the Presidency Town, he is subordinate to the Court of Small Causes which has been notified as the author ity to hear appeals from his orders and it is a well settled proposition that the Court of Small Causes is not competent to adjudicate on questions of title.
Yet, having regard to the manner in which he is required to come to this conclusion and having regard to the fact that at least in the Presidency Town an appeal from his order goes to the Court of Small Causes, it is difficult to escape the conclu sion that the jurisdiction to be exercised by him is a limited and a prima facie one.
The limited nature of the jurisdiction of a Tribunal like the Rent Controller and the Court of Small Causes has been considered in a number of cases by this Court as well as other courts: (1) We may start with an early Full Bench decision of the Madras High Court: Venkatarama Rao & Ors.
It has long been held that a question of title in a Small Cause suit can be regarded as incidental only to the substantial issue in the suit and cannot operate 8as res judicata in a subsequent suit in which the question of title is directly raised . .
It also took a technical plea that the decision of the Additional Settlement Officer that the suit land was poramboke and not 'ryoti ' land was final and the Civil Court 's jurisdiction to decide that question was barred under section 64 C of the Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948, which ran as follows: "64 C. Finality of orders passed under this Act (1) Any order passed by the Government or other authority under this Act in respect of matters to be determined for the purposes of this Act shall, subject only to any appeal or revision provided by or under this Act, be final.
There is nothing in the Tamil Nadu Rent Control Act which, in any way, takes away, or narrows down, the civil court 's juris diction as, for example, there is in the Delhi Rent Control Act (section 50).
We have al ready referred to the effect of the provisions of section 10 (2)(vii) read with the proviso to section 10(1) and pointed out how jurisdiction to decide questions of title is denied to the Rent Controller.
Similarly by an erroneous decision if the Court assumes jurisdiction which it does not possess under the statute, the decision will not operate as res judicata between the same parties, whether the cause of action in the subsequent litigation is the same or otherwise." (5) Gangabai vs Chhabubai, ; , related to the jurisdiction of the Court of Small Causes.
All that the Rent Controller has to do is to satisfy himself that the person seeking eviction or fixation of fair rent is a "landlord" who has, prima facie, ' the right to receive the rents of the property in question.
Can it possibly be said that the finding of the revenue court on the issue of adop tion is binding on the parties in a subsequent suit in a civil court in which the validity of the adoption might fall to be decided? There can be no doubt about the answer.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
In that case the plaintiff respondent claimed title to the suit land on the basis of its long and uninter rupted possession since prior to 1938 as also under an order of assignment of 1938 issued in its favour by the Zamindar whereby the right to cultivate in respect of that land was granted to it subject to the payment of certain amounts.
In our opinion, on a proper construction of the Rent Control Act, the question on which the jurisdiction of the civil court is excluded is only the determination as to the fair rent of the premises.
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 10(2)(vii) of the Act read with the proviso to section 10(1) and the Court 's observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
Sri Krish namurthy Iyer is, therefore, certainly right in contending that the Act requires the Rent Controller to consider this issue, among others, while disposing the applications before him.
