The alleged signature of the testator may be very shaky and doubtful and evidence in support of the propounder 's case that the signature, in question is the signature of the testator may not remove the doubt created by the appearance of the signature; the condition of the testator 's mind may appear to be very feeble and debilitated; and evidence adduced may not succeed in removing the legitimate doubt as to the mental capacity of the testator; the dispositions made in the will may appear to be unnatural, improbable or unfair in the light of relevant circumstances; or, the will may otherwise indicate that the said dispositions may not be the result of the testator 's free will and mind.
It would sound platitudinous to say so, but it is nevertheless true that in discovering truth even in such cases the judicial mind must always be open though vigilant, cautious and circumspect.
It appears that no leave to set aside the verdict and enter judgment for the propounders notwithstanding the verdict on the sixth issue was reserved; but when the case came before the Court of Probate a rule was obtained to set aside the verdict generally and have a new trial or to set aside the verdict on the (1) ; ,482. 453 sixth issue for misdirection.
No previous or independent intention of making a will was shown and the, evidence that the testator understood the business in which his adviser engaged him was not sufficient to justify the grant of probate.
Even so, their Lordships expressly added that in coming to the conclusion which they had done they must not be understood as throwing the slightest doubt on the principles laid down in Fulton vs Andrew (1) and other similar cases referred to in the argument.
In other words, the case made out in the plaint clearly and specifically is that when the testatrix was ill at Mandya she sent for the appellant and gave him instructions for preparing a draft of her will.
This evidence does not strike us as natural or probable; but apart from it, even Kalbagal 's evidence does not show satisfactorily that the will was read out to the testatrix so as to enable her to understand its full effect before it was signed by her.
In this connection we would like to add that the learned trial judge appears to have misdirected himself in law inasmuch as he thought that the proof of the signature of the testatrix on the will raised a presumption that the will had been executed by her.
Even so, the High Court has expressed its conclusions in favour of res pondent I on the question about the character of the subsequent acquisitions of items 3, 4 and 5 and about the subsisting title of the testatrix in respect of all the properties covered by the will.
