As pointed out by Sri Agarwal, even in Mohd. Sirajuddin 's case (supra), although the exemption claimed for the sales as export sales was denied, the conclusion of the High Court that the sales to S.T.C. were inter State sales chargeable under section 5(1) of the C.S.T. Act was upheld.
This definition includes, within the definition of 'turnover ' the purchase value of goods liable to tax under section 9 but, the goods presently in question are not laible to tax under section 9, not only as contended for the assessees and held by us above but also on the hypothesis as to the invalidity of section 9(1)(b) on which the present argument on behalf of the Revenue pro ceeds.
The definition of 'turnover ' clearly postulates that goods are either to be taxed at the point of purchase or sale and the same transaction cannot be taxed as a sale in the hands of the dealer who sells to the assessees and as a purchase in the hands of the assessees.
What was declared unconstitutional by this Court was, therefore, only the levy of a tax where raw materials are purchased and used inside the State for the manufacture of finished goods which are then simply and without any sale despatched rather, consigned outside the State.
It seems that these two aspects of section 9(1)(b) survive even after the judgment of this Court in the Goodyear case ; Shri Gupta, however, drew our attention to certain sentences in the headnote as well as the body of the above decision where certain wider expressions have been used, such as :"s. 9(1)(b) was ultra vires" "section 9(1) and 24(3) are constitutionally invalid" "section 9(1)(c) is ultra vires" and" . . the latter part of section 9(1)(b) is ultra vires and void".
Faced with this situation, Shri Gupta, for the State, contended that this argument will not avail the assessees as, according to him, section 9(1)(b) of the Act has been de clared unconstitutional by this Court and is, therefore, non est.
Purchases of raw materials in the State used in the manufacture of goods inside the State attract the tax under section 9(1) unless those manufactured goods are dealt with in one of three ways: (1) disposed of by way of sale inside the State; (2) despatched to a place outside the State but by way of a sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce; or (3) despatched to a place outside the State but by way of sale in the course of export outside the territory of India.
Considering that the legislation is replete with instances of retrospec tive effect (in some cases even to as early as a date as 7.9.1955), the failure or omission to give any retrospective effect to the amendment to section 9 in this regard is an eloquent pointer to the intention of the legislature.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that this alternative contention urged by the learned counsel for the assessee has to be accepted and it has to be held that, since the sales effected by the assessees fall within one of the three exempted categories set out in section 9(1)(b), there can be no levy of purchase tax under section 9(1) of the Act.
We may also make a reference to sub section (3) of s, 24, inserted with retrospective effect from 27.5.1971, which taxes the purchase of raw materials, when the dealer who purchases them had claimed exemption under section 24(1) but is found not to have used the goods for the purposes speci fied therein i.e. for the manufacture of goods for the purpose of (a) local sale; (b) inter State sale; or (c) sale in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of sub section (1) of section 5 of the C.S.T. Act.
It may be pointed out that, after Act I of 1988, this provision does not tax purchases even in cases where the manufactured goods are disposed of only by way of 'penultimate sales falling under section 5(3) but not under section 5(1) of the C.S.T. Act, 1956, but this amendment came later and will have to be left out of account for the purpose of these cases; (ii) This provi sion has been held to be ultra vires in the Goodyear case (supra).
This contention, it seems to us, proceeds on a misconception of the issue before, and the ratio of the decision of this Court in the Goodyear case ; That was a case in which certain dealers, having purchased raw materials and manufactured goods inside the State despatched those goods outside the State otherwise than by way of sale.
He fully supported the reasoning of the High Court and urged that full effect should be given to the words "within the meaning of sub section (I) of section 5" which found a place in section 9(1)(b) till they were dropped by Act 1 of 1988.
In view of the circumstances outlined above, we are of the opinion that the High Court was right in concluding that the assessee 362 was not entitled to the exemption under section 9because the sales made by him were not sates in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of section 5(1) of the .
The proviso to clause (a) refers only to "sale by him in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of section 5 of the ", whereas the proviso to clause (b) refers to "sale by him in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of sub section 3 of section 5 of the ".
Each of the assessee have sold its goods to another dealer, If that dealer is also a resident of Haryana and has taken delivery of the goods in Haryana and exported them thereafter, the assessees ' sales would be local sales.
There is, however, nothing unconstitutional about the two other consequences that flow on the language of the clause: one express and the other implied; one in favour of the Revenue and the other in favour of the assessee viz. 364 (1) that there will be a tax on the purchase of the raw materials if the manufactured goods are disposed of in the State itself otherwise than by way of sale; and (2) that there will be no tax on the purchase of the raw materials if the manufactured goods are despatched from the State consequent on a (i) local sale; (ii) inter State sale; or (iii) a sale in the course of export.
Though section 6, as amended, purports to make dealers liable to pay tax on their sales as well as purchases, the actual charge of tax, under section 15, is only imposed on the sales and purchases that form part of his taxable turnover.
