Under the Import & Export Policy 1978 79, there were two requirements for grant of Additional license: one was the condition as to eligibility for registration as an Export House and grant of Export House Certificates; and the other was the basis for issuing the Additional licences to Export House which had been granted Export House Certificates.
Under the Import & Export Policy 1988 91 provision with regard to eligibility for the grant of Export House/Trading House Certificate is contained in para 212 which prescribed that the said eligibility shall be determined on the basis of the net foreign exchange (NEF) earnings from the export actually made in preceding three licensing years termed as 'the Base period '.
The provisions conferring flexibility in the matter of imports contained in sub para (4) of para 215 of the Import & Export Policy 1988 91 are intended to give an incentive to Export Houses to increase the exports in a way as to enhance the net foreign exchange earnings of the country.
Since the basis for the grant of Additional licences which are entitled to this relaxation is different from the basis on which Additional licences were granted to the petitioners, the petitioners cannot claim the benefit of the same relaxation and assail the validity of sub para (10) of para 218 of the Import & Export Policy 1988 91.
A close examination of the Import & Export Policy 1978 79 under which the petitioners have been granted the Additional licences and the Import & Export Policy 1988 91 shows that there is material difference between the conditions for grant of Additional licences under Import Policy 1978 79 and the conditions for grant of such licences under the Import Policy 1988 91 and it cannot be said that the petitioners who have been granted Additional licences under the Import & Export Policy 1978 79 and the Export & Import Policy 1988 91 are persons similarly circumstanced.
High public policy, it must be emphasised, It involved in the scheme of canalisation." (Pages 1001 2) Shri Salve has placed reliance on the following observations of this Court in this case: " Canalised items are those items which are ordinarily open to import only through a public sector agency.
This was a measure of restitution, but the Court while doing so, ensured that nothing illegal was done." (P.1000) After referring to the decision in Raj Prakash Chemicals Ltd. (supra) this Court has stressed: "The items had to pass to two tests, firstly, they should have been importable under the import policy 1978 79 and secondly they should also have been importable under the import policy 1985 88 in terms of the Order dated 18th April, 1985, and if one may add, in such terms 'in accordance with the import rules ' whether canalised or not canalised." (P. 1001) This Court has gone on to emphasise: "It must be emphasised that in the Order dated 18th April, 1985, this Court did not do away with canalisation.
In view of the fact that the licence issued in favour of M/s. Suraj Diamonds Industries was issued under a mistake and the said mistake has been rectified, it cannot be said that the petitioners have been subjected to hostile discrimination vis a vis other Export House similarly situate.
It has been urged that the petitioners as well as the said license, namely, M/s. Suraj Diamonds Industries Pvt. Ltd. are persons similarly situate and whereas M/s. Suraj Diamonds Industries Pvt. Ltd. have been granted an Additional licence whereunder, it is permissible to import items as per para 215 of the Import & Export Policy 1988 91, the said facility has been denied to the petitioners and that the petitioners have been subjected to arbitrary and hostile discrimination.
The petitioners who were granted Additional licences to the extent of 33.33% of the f.o.b. value of the exports made them during the year 1977 78 cannot, therefore, be said to be persons similarly circumstanced as Export House who exported goods in the year 1987 88 and in subsequent years and obtain Additional licences for a much lesser value under the Import Policy 1988 91 on the basis of the net foreign exchange earnings.
Shri H.N. Salve, has, however, urged that in view of the decision of this Court in D. Navinchandra & Co. case (supra) the Export Houses who were granted Additional licences under the Import & Export Policy 1978 79 have to be treated at par with Export Houses who have been granted Additional licences under the Import & Export Policy for the subsequent years and since there has been relaxation in the matter of policy of canalisation of imports under sub para (4) of 246 para 215 in respect of Additional licences granted to Export Houses under the Import & Export Policy 1988 91, the petitioners are also entitled to a similar relaxation.
In D. navinchandra & Co. case (supra) this Court has not laid down that Export Houses, like the petitioners, who are granted Additional licences on the basis of the order Dated April 18, 1985, are to be treated at par with Export Houses who are granted Additional licences under Import & Export Policy prevalent at the time of import.
The expression 'net foreign exchange earnings ' has been defined as the total f.o.b. value of admissible exports minus the c.i.f. value of Advance/Imprest (including Diamond Imprest/DTC Imperest) Licences/Import Export Pass Books (excluding Special Imprest Import Export Pass Book) if any issued, and the REP licences issued or the eligibility thereto, during the preceding three licensing years.
This indicates that under the Import & Export Policy 1988 91 for the purposeof grant of Export House Certificate as well as Additional licences the emphasis is on the net foreign exchange earnings made by the Export House, which means that the value of the imports made by the Import House for the purpose of exporting goods is to be excluded from the f.o.b. value of exports.
Since the matter has been pending in this Court and the Additional licences issued to the petitioners have expired in the meanwhile we consider it appropriate that the period of validity of the said licences should be extended so that the petitioners can avail the same and are able to import the goods which can be so imported under the prevailing Import Policy.
In Para 165 of the said Policy eligibility for grant of Export House Certificates was to be determined on the basis of the export actually made in the three year base period 1975 76, 1976 77 and 1977 78 and in para 166 it was laid down that annual average f.o.b. value of exports in the prescribed base period of select products should not be less than Rs. One crore or those of non select products Rs. Five crores, but in the case of a small scale unit or a consortium of small scale units, the said minimum limit was reduced to Rs. 25 lakhs for select products and Rs. 2 crores for non select products.
