Whatever the ultimate effect of the stay orders, in view of the provisions of Section 11 A of the Land Acquisition Act, to which we have already referred 566 earlier, it is beyond dispute that the fact of the stay orders was highly material in the determination of these Special Leave Petitions.
Appeals against the decision of a learned Single Judge were dismissed by the Karnataka High Court on October 6, 1989, by a Division Bench of that High Court.
It is well settled in law that the relief under Article 136 of the Constitution is discretionary and a petitioner who approaches this Court for such relief must come with frank and full disclosure of facts.
Curiously enough, there is no reference in the Special Leave Petitions to any to the stay orders and we came to know about these orders only when the respondents appeared in response to the notice and filed their counter affidavit.
In our view, the said interim orders have a direct bearing on the question raised and the non disclosure of the same certainly amounts to suppression of material facts.
On September 11, 1985, the petitioners obtained an interim order from this Court directing status quo with regard to the possession of the lands in question in Special Leave Petition No. 294 of 1985 preferred against the order of the Karnataka High Court dated August 14, 1984, with which we are not directly concerned here.
The petitioners preferred these Special Leave Petitions, namely S.L.P. Nos. 823 and 824 of 1990 against the decision of the Devision Bench of that High Court, and obtained an interim stay of dispossession therein.
On December 16 17, 1987, two writ petitions were field by the respective petitioners in the Karnataka High Court challenging the acquisition on the ground that the awards were not made within the stipulated time.
The said Special Leave Petition No.294 of 1985 was dismissed on April 29, 1987.
We accordingly dismiss the Special Leave Petitions.
If he fails to do so and suppresses material facts, his application is liable to be dismissed.
In these two writ petitions, the Karnataka High Court granted interim stay of further proceedings in respect of the acquisition of the said lands.
R.P. SLPs dismissed.
These petitions were dismissed by a learned Single Judge of that High Court on November 29, 1988.
There will be no order as to costs of these petitions.
On this ground alone, the Special Leave Petitions are liable to be rejected.
