Not,/withstanding the general rule that the burden of proof lies exclusively upon the prosecution, in the case of certain c fences, the burden of proving a particular fact in issue may be laid by law upon the accused.
" As to the ingredients of the offence, learned Judge contin ued: "The ingredients of the offence of criminal misconduct under section 5(2) read with section 5(1)(e) are the possession of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to the known sources of income for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account.
But to state that after collection of all material the investi gating Officer must give an opportunity to the accused and call upon idm to account for the excess of the assets over the known sources of income and then decide whether the accounting is satisfactory or not, would be elevating the Investigating Officer to the position of an enquiry officer or a judge.
This report is an intimation to the magis trate that upon investigation into a cognizable offence the investigating officer has been able to procure sufficient evidence for the Court to inquire into the offence and the necessary information is being sent to the Court.
It states that the investi gation shows that between 1 May 1969 and 24 February 1976 the appellant as the Chief Justice of the High Court of Madras was in possession of the pecuniary resources and property in his own name and in the name of his wife and two sons etc., which were disproportionate by Rs.6,41,416.36 to the known sources of income over the same period and cannot satisfactorily account for such disproportionate pecuniary resources and property.
1976, the Central Bureau of Investigation at Delhi registered a case against the appellant under the Act and on 28.2.1976, the First Information Report was lodged accusing the appellannt of the offence of criminal misconduct under Section 5(1)(e) punishable under Section 5(2) of the Act.
The difficulty of sanction under Section 6 for the prosecution of superior Judges and the special provisions contained in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 read with Article 2 18, it was suggested, pre sented no difficulty since the President of India could be treated as the competent authority to grant sanction in accordance.
At the hearing the consensus was that, this unfortu nate controversy not envisaged earlier, having now arisen, may be, it is time that a clear provision be made within the constitutional scheme to provide for a machinery to deal with the corrupt members of the superior judiciary, which itself is necessary for preservation of the independence of the judiciary.
If for any reason the Comptroller and Auditor General and the Chief Election Commissioner be considered outside the purview of the Act, that would itself indicate exclusion of certain similar constitutional func tionaries from the purview of the Act.
The desirability of enacting such a law applicable to them, it was strenuously urged at the hearing, would be a matter primarily for the Parliament to consider in case the existing law as enacted does not apply to them.
For this reason, the desirabil ity now expressed of having such a law cannot be an aid to construction of the existing law to widen its ambit and bring these constitutional functionaries within it since such an exercise would be wholly impermissible in the garb of judicial craftmanship which cannot replace legislation in a vergin field.
Thus, no Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under Sub section (2) of Section 5 of the Act except with the previous sanction of the competent authority envisaged by clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Sub section (1) of Section 6 of the Act.
Previous sanction necessary for prosecution. (1) No court shall take cogni zance of an offence punishable under Section 161 or Section 164 or Section 165 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or under sub section (2) or sub section (3A) of Section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction, (a) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of the Union and is not removable from his office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government, of the Central Government; (b) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of a State and is not removable from his office save by or with the sanction of the State Government, of the State Government; (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
No discussion shall take place in Parliament with respect to the conduct of any Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High Court in the discharge of his duties except upon a motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of the Judge as hereinafter provided.
The provisions of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 shall apply in relation to a High Court as they apply in relation to the Supreme Court with the substitution of refer ence to the High Court for references to the Supreme Court.
Though we did not make any direct inquiries, we were informed by responsible persons including Vigilance and Special Police Establishment Officers that corruption exists in the lower ranks of the judiciary all over India and in some places it has spread to the higher ranks also.
Perhaps the setting up of vigilance organisa tion under the direct control of the Chief Justice of every High Court coordinated by a Central Vigilance Officer under the Chief Justice of India may prove to be an appropri ate method.
Perhaps the setting up of vigilance organisations under the direct control of the Chief Justice of every High Court coordinated by a Central Vigilance Officer under the Chief Justice of India may prove to be an appropriate method.
In other words, the argument is that not withstanding the fact that no sanction was required for prosecution of the appellant after his retirement, the need and feasibility of grant of the sanction under Section 6 of the Act if he was prosecuted before his retirement is the test to determine the applicability of the Act to a person holding, the office of a Judge or Chief Justice of a High Court.
The grant of previous sanction under Section 6 being a condition precedent for the prosecution of a public servant covered by the Act, it must follow that the holder of an office who may be a public servant according to the wide definition of the expression in the Act but whose category for the grant of sanction for prosecution is not envisaged by Section 6 of the Act, is outside the purview of the Act, not intended to be covered by the Act.
This appears to be the obvious conclusion even for a case like the present where no such sanction for prosecution is necessary on the view taken in Antulay, and not chal lenged before us, that the sanction for prosecution under Section 6 is not necessary when cognizance of the offence is taken after the accused has ceased to hold the office in question.
In other words, Section 6 applies only in cases where there is a vertical hierarchy of public offices and the public servant against whom sanction is sought is under the sanctioning authority in that hierarchy.
The provisions of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 Shall apply in relation to a High Court as they apply in relation to the Supreme Court with the substitution of refer ences to the High Court for references to the Supreme Court." According to Article 124(4), a Judge can be removed from his office by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by the pre scribed majority on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Since the order of removal in such a case is to be made by the President, the learned Solicitor General contended that the competent authority to remove such a Judge as required by Section 6(1)(c) is the President and it is in this manner that Section 6(1)(c) is attracted.
The construction made of the provisions of the Act must also fit in with the scheme of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 read with Article 2 18 of the Constitution in order to present a harmonious scheme.
The prior enactment and existence of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 at the time then clause (4) and (5) of Article 124 of the Constitution were framed, does indicate the constitutional scheme that a separate parliamentary law to deal with the investigation and proof of misbehaviour of a Judge was clearly contemplated by providing a special machinery for this category of constitu tional functionaries 295 notwithstanding the general law available and applicable to the public servants in general, which included the Preven tion of Corruption Act, 1947.
This is more so, since the rejection of such an argument would not in any manner jeopardise the provisions of the Act as it would result only in the failure of the attempt to bring the constitutional functionaries such as Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court within the purview of that Act, while the Act would continue to apply to the public servants in general who fall within the scheme of Section 6 of the Act for the purpose of grant of previous sanction for prosecution which is a condition precedent for cognizance of an offence pun ishable under that Act.
An additional reason 'indicating inapplicability of the Act is the practical difficulty in applying criminal miscon duct, defined in clause (e) of Sub section (1) of Section 5 of the Act, to a Judge of a High Court or the Supreme Court.
In order to form an objective opin ion, the competent authority must undoubtedly have before it the version of the public servant on the basis of which the conclusion can be reached whether it amounts to satisfactory account or not.
In other words, if the holder of a public office during his tenure in office cannot be prosecuted without sanction under Section 6, then, as held in Antulay, no sanction for his prosecution after ceasing to hold the office may be necessary, but his prosecution is made because while in office he could be prosecuted With the previous sanction under Section 6.
Conversely, if the holder of a public office while continuing in that office could not be prosecuted under this Act on account of inapplicability of Section 6 and, therefore, the non feasibility of previous sanction for prosecution under Section 6, then on his ceas ing to hold the office, he is not brought within the purview of the Act merely because Antulay decides that no sanction for prosecution under Section 6 is 'needed after the holder of a public office ceases to hold that office.
The clear legislative intent is that the enactment applies only to those in whose case sanction of this kind is contemplated and those to whom the provision of sanction cannot squarely apply are outside its ambit.
A proper perception would indicate that these constitutional functionaries were never intended to fail within the ambit of the Act as initially enacted in 1947, when provisions similar to Articles 124(4) & (5) of the Constitution were present in the Government of India Act, 1935, nor was any such attempt made by amendment of the Act ' in 1964 subsequent to the Report of the Santhanam Committee and the same position continues in the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.
It appears that the framers of the Constitution, while dealing with such constitutional functionaries, contemplated merely their removal from office in the manner provided in Article 124(4) as the only punishment; and a special law enacted by the Parliament under Article 124(5), even for investigation and proof of any misbehaviour alleged against a superior Judge instead of the general law was clearly visualised when the alleged misbehaviour is connected with his office.
Such an exercise by the Court does not amount to construing an ambiguous provision to advance the object of its enactment, but would be an act of trenching upon a virgin field of legislation and bringing within the ambit of the existing legislation a category of persons outside it, to whom it was not intended to apply either as initially enacted or when amended later.
With this duty entrusted to the higher judiciary, it was natural to expect that the higher judiciary would not require any other agency to keep a watch over it and the internal discipline flowing from the moral sanction of the community itself will be sufficient to keep it on the right track without the re quirement of any external check which may have the tendency to interfere with the independence of the judiciary, a necessary concomitant of the proper exercise of its consti tutional obligation.
Obviously, this position continued even during the delibera tions of the Santhanam Committee which clearly mentioned inits Report submitted in 1964 that it has considered the judiciary outside the ambit of its deliberations.
For the purpose of this argument it is presumed that there is no authority competent to remove a High Court Judge from his office within the meaning of Section 6, and the condition precedent for starting a prosecution against him, therefore, cannot be satisfied.
It was stated during the course of the hearing that actually such a situation has arisen in another country where a Judge al though punished with imprisonment was insisting that he still continued in his office.
If the prosecuting at hority after making a suitable enquiry, by taking into account the relevant documents and questioning relevant persons, forms the opinion that the accused cannot satisfac torily account the accumulation of disproportionate wealth in his possession the section is attracted.
Superintendence, direction and control of elections to be vested in an Elec tion Commission. (1) XXX XXX XXX (5) Subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, the conditions of service and tenure of office of the Elec tion Commissions and the Regional Commission ers shall be such as the President may by rule determine: Provided that the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be removed from his office except in like manner and on the like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme Court and the conditions of service of the Chief Elec tion Commissioner shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment: Provided further that any other Election Commissioner or a Regional Commis sioner shall not be removed from office except on the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner.
Baldly put, the question is: Should an Additional Judge whose misbeha viour or lack of integrity has come to the fore he continued as an Additional Judge or confirmed as a Permanent Judge? The answer at the first impulse and rightly would be in the negative but the question requires deeper consideration.
Incongruous results would follow in such an event, even assuming that the guidelines suggested by the learned Solic itor General, are deemed to be incorporated in the Act by implication while dealing with persons holding these of fices.
The framers of the Constitution had visualised that the constitutional scheme for appointment of the superior Judges would ensure that by an honest exercise performed by all the constitutional functionaries of their obligation in the process of appointment of a superior Judge, there would be no occasion to try and punish any appointee to such a high office for an act of corruption.
Although the Judges of the higher judiciary perform important functions and are vested with special jurisdic tion, at cannot be forgotten that judicial power, wherever it is vested, is integral and basic for a democratic consti tution.
Protection to the public servant in general is provided under Article 311 and the interest of the subordi nate judiciary is further taken care of by the High Court, and this along with the provisions regarding previous sanc tion shields them from unjustified prosecution.
These obser vations, I believe, would be not only acceptable, but wel come to the Union of India, as during the hearing it was at the suggestion of the learned Solicitor General and the Additional Solicitor General, that the desirability of the aforesaid direction in the judgment was considered by the Bench.
I fully appreciate the concern of all of us including the Union of India for arriving at a satisfactory solution of the different problems which are arising, but if we start supplementing the law as it stands now, we will be encroaching upon the legislative field.
or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate, or from any person whom he knows to be inter ested in or related to the person so con cerned, or (c) if he dishonestly or fraudulently misap propriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do, or (d) if he, by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advan tage, or (e) if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
In the Report of the Santhanam Committee, certain portions relating to the judiciary which may throw light on the question before us are extracted as under: "SECTION 12 MISCELLANEOUS XXX XXX XXX 12.2 We did not consider the judici ary to be included in our terms of reference.
The Chief Justice of India in consulta tion with the Chief Justices of the High Courts should arrange for a thorough inquiry into the incidence of corruption, among the judiciary, and evolve, in consultation with the Central and State Governments, proper measures to prevent and eliminate it.
A grant of sanction is not an idle formality but a solemn and sacrosanct act which removes the umbrella of protection of Government servants against frivolous prosecutions and the aforesaid requirements must therefore, be strictly complied with before any prosecution could be launched against public servants.
If the misbehaviour or lack of integrity is glaringly self evident the ques tion of his continuance obviously cannot arise and in all probabilities will not engage the attention of the appointing authority, 292 for, the concerned Judge in such a situation would himself resign but when we talk of misbehaviour or lack of integrity on the part of an Additional Judge having come to the fore, by and large the instances are of sus pected misbehaviour and/or reported lack of integrity albeit based on opinions expressed in responsible and respectable quarters and the serious question that arises is whether in such cases the concerned Additional Judge should be dropped merely on opinion material or concrete facts and material in regard to allegations of misbehaviour and/or lack of integrity should be insisted upon? In my view since the question relates to the continuance of a high constitutional functionary like the Additional Judge of High Court it would be jeopardising his security and judicial inde pendence if action is taken on the basis or merely opinion material.
Moreover, no machin ery having legal sanction behind it for hold ing an inquiry disciplinary or otherwise against the concerned Judge on allegations of misbehaviour and or lack of integrity obtains in the Constitution or any law made by the Parliament, save and except the regular proc ess of removal indicated in article 124(4) and (5) read with article 218 and the Judges (In quiry) Act, 1968."Therefore, the important question that arises in such cases of suspect ed misbehaviour and/or reported lack of integ rity is who will decide and how whether the concerned Judge has in fact indulged in any misbehaviour or act of corruption? In the absence of satisfactory machinery possessing legal sanction to reach a positive conclusion on the alleged misbehaviour or an act of corruption the decision to drop him shall have been arrived at merely on the basis of opin ions, reports, rumours or gossip and apart from being unfair and unjust to him such a course will amount to striking at the root of judicial independence.
The other alternative, namely, to continue him as an Additional Judge for another term or to make him permanent if a vacancy is available and then take action for his removal under the regular process indicat ed in article 124(4) and (5) read with article 2 18 and Judges (Inquiry) Act,1968 may sound absurd but must be held to be inevitable if judicial independence, a cardinal faith of our Consti tution, is to be preserved and safeguarded.
It is a question of 293 choosing the lesser evil and in inevitable course has to ' be adopted not for the protec tion of the corrupt or dishonest judge but for protecting several other honest, conscientious and hard working Judges by preserving their independence; it is a price which the Society has to pay to avoid the greater evil that will ensue if judicial independence is sacrificed.
Considering the question from the angle of public interest therefore, I am clearly of the view that while considering the question of continuance of the sitting Additional Judges on the expiry of their initial term either as Additional Judges or as Permanent Judges the test of suitability contemplated within the consultative process under article 217(1) should not be invoked at least until such time as proper machinery possessing legal sanction is provided for enabling a proper inquiry against an alleged errant Judge less cumbersome than the near impeachment process contemplated by article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitution." (Tulzapurkar, J. ) (pp. 920 21) " . .
It was pointed out that ordinarily such a person faced with cogent material against him would resign, but in case he does not, the only remedy available is his removal from office in accordance with clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 read with Article 294 218 of the Constitution till a suitable provision with legal sanction is made.
There is no escape from the conclusion that Article 124(5) is wide enough to include within its ambit every conduct of a Judge amounting to misbehaviour including criminal misconduct and prescribes the procedure for investigation and proof thereof.
The need for these special provisions is a clear pointer in the direction of inapplicability to them of the general provisions applicable to the public servants holding other public offices, not as constitutional functionaries.
Construction of Section 6(1)(c) of the Act as suggested by the learned Solicitor General by treating the President as ,the competent authori ty to remove a High Court Judge would conflict with the provisions enacted in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 read with Article 218 of the Constitution.
The fact remains that while according sanction to prosecute under Section 6 of the Act, the competent authority has to satisfy itself about the public servant 's inability to satisfactorily account for possession of dis proportionate assets.
The recom mendations of the Santhanam Committee after which the 1964 amendment inserting clause (e) in Sub section (1) of Section 5 was made, suggest some amendment to the rules governing the conduct of public servants for giving periodical infor mation of all their assets.
No doubt, as held in Antulay, no sanction for prosecution under Section 6 is required after the public servant ceases to hold office, but it does not imply that every holder of a public office after ceasing to hold that office is within the purview of the enactment, even though during the tenure in office, only those public servants are 299 within its ambit in whose case sanction under Section 6 must be obtained.
It is for the purpose of construing the provisions of the enactment and determining the scope and ambit thereof and for deciding whether the holder of a public office comes within the purview of the enactment that the feasibility of previous sanction for prosecution and applicability of Section 6 of the Act is important.
There is no escape from the conclusion that the gross misbehaviour of corruption of a Judge must undoubtedly fall within the ambit or Article 124(5) justifying his removal in the manner provided in Article 124(4).
The fact that the Parliament did not enact any other law even then for the investigation into allegations of corruption against a superior Judge and for his trial and punishment for that offence and rest content merely with enacting the , to provide for the procedure for remov al of a Judge under Article 124(4) is a clear pointer in the direction that the Parliament has not as yet considered it expedient to enact any such law for the trial and punishment on the charge of corruption of a superior Judge, except by his removal from office in the manner prescribed.
The collec tive wisdom of the constitutional functionaries involved in the process of appointing a superior Judge is expected to ensure that persons of unimpeachable integrity alone are appointed to these high offices and no doubtful persons gain entry.
The patchwork of proposing guidelines suggested by the learned Solicitor General apart from being an impermissible judicial exercise, also does not present a complete and harmonious picture and fails to provide answers to several obvious querries which arise.
The duty and credit for maintaining this high tradition is on the Government in existence when the 'Constitution and the statutory rules are framed, and I have written this to you confi dently hoping that you share my desire to safeguard the dignity and independence of the judiciary and will do the needful in the matter." Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel promptly replied to the Chief Justice of India saying 'your views will be very helpful to us in dealing with the subject. ' (Sardar Patel 's Correspondence, 1945 50, edited by Durga Das, Vol.
The records clearly indicate that after duly taking all the appropriate steps it was stated that the assets found in the possession of the appellant in his own name and in the name of his wife and two sons, were disproportionate by a sum of over Rs.6 lacs to his known sources of income during the relevant period and which he "cannot satisfactorily account".
Shri Sibal argued that irrespective of the desirability of enacting a law providing for the prosecution and trial of superior Judges accused of the offence of criminal misconduct, the existing law contained in the Act is inapplicable to them.
The Administrative Tribu nals Act as enacted was found to suffer from certain infirm ities which would render it invalid and thereby failing to achieve the object of its enactment unless the deficiencies therein were supplied.
XXX XXX XXX 5A. Investigation into cases under this Act. (1) Notwithstanding anything con tained in the Code of Crimi 277 nal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), no police officer below the rank, (a) in the case of the Delhi Special Police Establishnent, of an Inspector of Police; (b) in the presidency towns of Calcutta and Madras, of an Assistant Commissioner of Po lice; (c) in the presidency town of Bombay, of Superintendent of Police; and (d) elsewhere, of a Deputy Superintendent of Police, shall investigate any offence punishable under Section 161.
Except the Supreme Court and some subordinate courts in the Union Territories, the Govern ment of India have no direct relation with the administration of the judiciary except that appointment of High Court Judges is made by the President.
In a society governed by rule of law power is conferred on office or acquired by statutory status and the individual occupying the office or on whom status is conferred enjoys the power of office or power flowing from the status.
As held in Antulay, the competent authority before granting sanction has to apply its mind and be satisfied about the existence of a prima facie case for prosecution of the public servant on the basis of the mate rial placed before it.
Jawaharlal Nehru and the Deputy Prime Minister, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the first Chief Justice of free India said: "Under the Constitution Act, provi sions can be made for the appointment, the salary, pension, leave and removal of the judges.
The Committee decided to recommend that Government servants should be required to submit a periodical statement of assets and liabilities, as it would not be reasonable to require the Government servants to report all the innumerable small transactions taking place continually.
Counsel for the appellant however, submitted that there is no law prohibiting a public servant having in his posses sion assets disproportionate to his known sources of income and such possession becomes an offence of criminal miscon duct only when the accused is unable to account for it.
A person with a just cause shall not approach the court for a legal 265 remedy, if according to his belief the decision of the court would be given on extreneous consideration and not on the merits of his claim.
It is for this reason that Section 6 assumes significance for the applicability of the Act since previous sanction for prosecution is necessary for taking cognizance of an offence under Section 5(2) of the Act and in situa tions where no such sanction can be envisaged, the Act cannot be made applicable.
These are strong reasons to hold that Section 6(1)(c) of the Act is inappliable to a Judge of a High Court or the Supreme Court and for that reason such constitutional functionaries do not fall within the purview of the Act.
What was earlier a rule of evidence in Sub section (3) of Section 5 of the Act, was made a substantive offence of criminal misconduct by insert ing clause (e) in Sub section (1) of Section 5 by this amendment.
If it is considered that the situation has altered requiring scrutiny of the conduct of even Judges at the highest level and that it is a matter for the Parliament to decide, then the remedy lies in enacting suitable legislation for that purpose providing for said guards to ensure independence of judiciary since the exist ing law does not provide for that situation.
It is true that the grant of sanction will be delayed until the accusation is examined according to the law enacted under Clause (5) of Article 124, but once that stage is over and a finding is recorded against the Judge, there should not be any hitch in combin ing the two matters that is the removal and the grant of sanction which are obviously intertwined.
In view of the significance of the point, I record my respectful dissent reassured by the observations of Hughes that 'unanimity which is merely formal, which is recorded at the expense of strong, con flicting views, is not desirable in a court of last resort, whatever may be the effect on public opinion at the time.
It was sug gested that some machinery involving the Chief Justice of India for grant of sanction for prosecution by the President of India, even for investigation into the offence, could be suggested by this Court for implicit compliance by the executive.
It is implicit that if the answer is in the affirmative, then the Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court also would fall within the purview of the Act and so also the Comptroller and Auditor Genera 273 and the Chief Election Commissioner, whose terms and condi tions of office are the same as those of a Judge of the Supreme Court of India.
In a case like the present, the only answer can be a definite 'yes ' or definite 'no ', but not 'yes ' with the addition of the legislative require ments in the enactment which are wholly absent and without which the answer cannot be 'yes '.
The only result is that in case such a legislation for superior Judges also is considered necessary at this point of time, the Parliament can perform its function by enacting suitable legislation, it being a virgin field of legislation.
(2) Any public servant who commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
It is as a result of the 1964 amend ment that clause (e) was inserted in Sub section (1) of Section 5 of the Act to make the possession of dispropor tionate assets by a public servant by itself a substantive offence of criminal misconduct, while prior to this amend ment such a provision was merely a rule of evidence con tained in Sub section (3) of Section 5 as initially enacted which was then available only to prove the offence of crimi nal misconduct defined in clauses (a) to (d) of Sub section (1) of Section 5.
The Committee considers that in order to enable Government to ascertain whether any Government servant is in possession of assets disproportionate to his known sources of income or whether he is running into debt, it is necessary that the Government servant should furnish a complete statement of his assets and liabilities periodically.
Clauses (a), (b) and (c) in Sub section (1) of Section 6 exhaus 286 tively provide for the competent authority to grant sanction for prosecution in case of all the public servants failing within the purview of the Act.
It follows that the holder of an office, even though a 'public servant ' accord ing to the definition in the Act, who does not fall within any of the clauses (a), (b) or (c) of Sub section (1) of Section 6 must be held to be outside the purview of the Act since this special enactment was not enacted to cover that category of public servants inspite of the wide definition of 'public servant ' in the Act.
Therefore, when a public servant is accused of an offence of taking gratification other then legal remuneration for doing or forebearing to do an official act (Section 161 (IPC) or as a public servant abets offences punishable under Sec tions 161 and 163 (Section 164 IPC) or as public servant obtains a valuable thing with out consideration from person concerned in any proceeding or business transacted by such public servant (Section 165 IPC) or commits criminal misconduct as defined in Section 5 of the 1947 Act, it is implicit in the various offences that the public servant has misused or abused the power of office held by him as public servant.
By a catena of decisions, it has been held that the authority entitled to grant sanction must apply its mind to the facts of the case, evidence collected and other incidental facts before according sanction.
That is why the Legislature clearly provided that that authority alone would be competent to grant sanction which is entitled to remove the public servant against whom sanction is sought from the office." (emphasis supplied) (para 23, pp. 204 206) It is significant from the above extract in Antulay that for the purpose of grant of sanction under Section 6 of the Act to prosecute the public servant, a 'vertical hierarchy between the authority competent to remove the public servant from that office and the nature of the office held by the public servant against whom sanction is sought ' is clearly envisaged and, therefore, the authority competent to remove the public servant from that office should be vertically superior in the hierarchy in which the office exists having the competence to judge the, action of the public servant before removing the bar by granting sanction.
There can be no doubt that the expression 'misbehaviour ' is of wide import and includes within its ambit criminal miscon duct as defined in Sub section (1) of Section 5 of the Act as also lesser misconduct of a Judge falling short of crimi nal misconduct.
It is reasonable to assume that while rendering the decision in S.P. Gupta, 296 where in the question of dealing with some Judges against whom allegations of lack of integrity and corruption also were made and the question was of the machinery available for dealing with them, the learned Judges could not have been unaware of the provisions of the Act while taking the view that the only legal machinery available under the existing law is that in accordance with clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 of the Constitution.
In the case of Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court, there is no such requirement under any provi sion of furnishing particulars of their assets so as to provide a record thereof with reference to which such an opinion can be formed and there is no vertical superior with legal authority enabling obtaining of information from the concerned Judge.
A charge of corruption against a superior Judge amounting to criminal misconduct by abuse of his office would certainly fail within the ambit of misbehaviour con templated under Article 124(5), since misbehaviour of a Judge in the form of corruption by abuse of his office would be an act of gross misbehaviour justifying his removal from office, irrespective of other legal sanction, if any, to punish a corrupt Judge.
It may also be noticed that the provisions of the , provide the procedure for investigation and proof of an allegation of corruption against a superior Judge and if the Prevention of Corruption Act is held applicable to them, then there would be two separate procedures under these two enactments providing for investigation into the same charge.
It may be mentioned that instances of punishment for corruption in earlier centuries including the indictment of Lord Bacon is not apposite for the reason that the situation then was not akin to the scheme in the Indian Constitution for the judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court and the protection given to them for ensuring the independence of judiciary.
It was expected that any deviation from the path of rectitude at that level would be a rare phenomenon and for the exceptional situation the provision for removal in accordance with clause (4) of Article 124 was made, the difficulty in adopting that course being itself indicative of the rarity with which it was expected to be invoked.
The extent and nature of burden of proof resting upon the public servant to be found in posses sion of disproportionate assets under section 5(1)(c) cannot be higher than the test laid by the Court in Jahgan 's case (supra), i.e. to establish his case by a preponderance of probability.
Adroitly, as observed in Swamy case (at 469) and reiterated in Wasudeo case (at 683), the prosecution cannot, in the very nature of things, be expect ed to know the affairs of a public servant found in posses sion of resources of property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
Can the Chief Justice of a High Court or any of its puisne Judges be prosecuted for an offence punishable under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act ')? This is the main question arising for decision in this appeal.
Presumption where public servant accepts gratification other than legal remu neration. (1) Where in any trial of an of fence punishable under Section 16 1 or Section 165 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or of an offence 275 referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub section (1) of Section 5 of this Act punishable under sub section (2) thereof, it is proved that an accused person has accepted or obtained, or as agreed to accept or at tempted to obtain, for himself or for any other person, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing from any person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that he accepted or ob tained, or agreed to accept or attempted to obtain that gratification or that valuable thing as the case may be as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in the said Section 161, or, as the case may be, without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate.
Section 165 or Section 165A of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or under Section 5 of this Act without the order of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may De, or make any arrest therefor without a warrant: Provided that if a police officer not below the rank of an Inspector of Police is authorised by the State Government in this behalf by general or special order, he may also investigate any such offence without the order of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magis trate of the first class, as the case may be, or make arrest therefor without a warrant: Provided further that an offence referred to in clause (e) of sub section (1) of Section 5 shall not be investigated without the order of a police officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police.
Comptroller and Auditor General of India.(1) There shall be a Comptroller and Auditor General of India who shall be appoint ed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal and shall only be removed from office in like manner and on the like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme Court.
Protection of President and Governors and Rajpramukhs. (1) The President, or the Governor or 281 Rajpramukh of a State, shall not be answerable to any court for the exercise and performance of the powers and duties of his office or for any act done or purporting to be done by him in the exercise and performance of those powers and duties: Provided that the conduct of the President may be brought under review by any court, tribunal or body appointed or designat ed by either House of Parliament for the investigation of a charge under Article 61: Provided further that nothing in this clause shall be construed as restricting the right of any person to bring appropriate proceedings against the Government of India or the Government of a State.
" It may also be mentioned that the has been enacted by the Parliament to regulate the procedure for the investigation and proof of the misbeha viour or incapacity of a Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High Court and for the presentation of an 282 address by Parliament to the President and for matters connected therewith, as contemplated by Articles 124(5) of the Constitution of India.
The Committee considers that only the more/ important items of movable property should be reported specifically and that it would be sufficient if Government servants report the total value of other movable property except articles of daily use like clothes, utensils, crockery, books, etc.
It was, however, contended that for the purpose of deciding the question of applicability of the Act to the appellant as a Judge or Chief Justice of the High Court, the office with reference to which the offence under the Act is alleged to have been committed, it is necessary to consider the feasibility of grant of sanction under Section 6 of the Act for prosecution of a person holding such an office.
It is argued that if the grant of sanction under Section 6 of the Act for prosecution of the incumbent for the offence is not feasible or envisaged, the clear indica tion is that holder of such office does not fall within the purview of the Act.
The question of grant of sanction under Section 6 for the prosecution of a Judge or Chief Justice of a High Court for an offence punishable under Section 5(2) of the Act is, therefore, of considerable importance to decide the main question in this appeal.
Where no such relation ship exists in the absence of any vertical hierarchy and the holder of the public office is a constitutional functionary not subject to power of superintendence of any superior, Section 6 can have no application by virtue of the scheme engrafted therein.
The scheme of the exist ing law to deal with such situations was considered at length and it was also held that even the power to transfer under Article 222 of the Constitution to another High Court could not be exercised for these reasons.
It was thereafter that the Judges (Inquiry) Act, 1963 and the rules framed thereunder were enacted to provide for the investigation and proof of allegations of misbehaviour of a Judge in accord ance with Article 124(5) of the Constitution.
In the case of such public servants whenever sanction to prosecute is sought under Section 6 of the Act, the competent authority can form the requisite opinion on the basis of the available material including the service record of the public servant to come to the conclusion whether the offence under clause (e) of possession of disproportionate assets which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account is made out prima facie.
It was also suggested at the hearing that the absence of need of sanction for prosecution under Section 6 of the Act after the public servant ceases to hold office as held in Antulay, suggests answer to the question of construction posed in this case.
In the case of any late starter or an exception, the power of removal in accordance with Article 124(4) by adopt ing the procedure prescribed under Article 124(5) was ex pected to be sufficient to eradicate the exceptional menace while preserving independence of the judiciary.
The need for such legislation now would, therefore, not be entirely on account of the absence of it so far, but also due to the failure of proper discharge of this consti tutional obligation and not any defect in the constitutional scheme.
I recog nise that the Governor General or the Presi dent, who will be an elected person, will have to consult the Cabinet according to the 305 Rules of Business framed for working the Central Government.
The appellant, K. Veeraswami, a former Chief Justice of the Madras High Court filed an application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Proce dure, 1973 (Criminal M.P. No. 265 of 1978) to quash the proceedings in C.C. No. 46 of 1977 in the Court of the Special Judge, Madras, initiated on a charge sheet accusing him of the offence of criminal misconduct under Section 5(1)(e) punishable under Section 5(2) of the Act, as amended by the Amendment Act of 1964.
The only question which now arises is: Whether this piece of legislation also applies to certain constitutional functionaries such as the High Court Judges and if the answer is in the negative, the life of the enact ment is not jeopardised in any manner.
We, therefore, suggest that the Chief Justice of India in consulta tion with the Chief Justices 283 of the High Courts should arrange for a thor ough inquiry into the incidence of corruption among the judiciary, and evolve, in consulta tion with the Central and State Governments, proper measures to prevent and eliminate it.
, 1982] 2 SCR 365 it was clearly pointed out that a High Court Judge is a high constitutional functionary and while dealing with the question of the machinery having legal sanction to deal with a High Court Judge against whom alle gations of lack of intergrity and corruption were made, it was stated as under: ".
Can it, therefore, be said that while investigation into the allegation of corrup tion for the purpose of removal under Article 124(4) needs a special law made by the Parliament under Article 124(5), it is not so for his prosecution which can be made under the provisions of the existing Prevention of Corruption Act? It appears that the framers of the Constitution did not contem plate the need for prosecution of a Judge at that level and expected that a superior Judge would resign if faced with credible material in support of allegations of misbehaviour, and in case he did not resign, his removal under Article 124(5) would be sufficient to deal with the situation.
As to who is precisely the authority in this regard is a matter which, in my view, does not arise in the present case, but the vital question whether such an authority exists at all must be answered in the affirmative.
It is a well established principle that no person is above the law and even a constitutional amendment as contained in Article 329 A in the case of the Prime Minister was struck 266 down in at 470 C D.
It has been argued that in view of the constitution al prohibition against any discussion in Parliament with respect to the conduct of a Judge of the superior court, except in connection with his removal under Article 124, it will not be possible to obtain the necessary sanction as mentioned in Section 6 of the Act, except by initiating a motion for removal also simultaneously; and then, it will be a time consuming process.
(2) Where in any trial of an offence punishable under Section 165A of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or under clause (ii) or sub section (3) of Section 5 of this Act, it is proved that any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing has been given or offered to be given or attempted to be given by an accused person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that he gave or offered to give or attempted to give that gratification or that valuable thing as the case may be as a motive or reward Such as is mentioned in Section 161 of the Indian Penal Code or, as the case may be, without consideration or for a considera tion which he known to be inadequate.
It is well known and is also clear from the Report of the Santhanam Committee that the rules applicable to the public servants in general regulating their conduct require them to furnish periodical information of their assets which form a part of their service record.
If the Act is applicable to Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court, it is obvious that the same must apply also to the Chief Justice of India, the Comptroller and Auditor General and the Chief Election Commissioner.
In short, it is for the purpose of construction of the provisions of the enactment and deter mining its scope that Section 6 which prescribes the condi tion precedent of previous sanction for prosecution for the offence of criminal misconduct punishable under Section 5(2) of the Act, holds the key which unlocks the true vistas of the enactment.
If there is now a felt need to provide for such a situation, the remedy lies in suitable parliamentary legislation for the purpose preserving the independence of judiciary free from likely executive influ ence while providing a proper and adequate machinery for investigation into allegations of corruption against such constitutional functionaries and for their trial and punish ment after the investigation.
Clearly, it was expected that the higher judiciary whose word would be final in the interpretation of all laws including the Constitution, will be comprised of men leading in the spirit of self sacrifice concerned more with their obligations than rights, so that there would be no occasion for anyone else to sit in judgment over them.
Once these four ingredients are estab lished, the offence of criminal misconduct under section 5(1)(e) is complete, unless the accused is able to account for such resources or proper" The burden then shifts to the accused to satisfaction.
He argued that that term means that the public servant is entitled to an opportunity before the Investigating Officer to explain the alleged dispropor tionality between assets and the known sources of income.
It has been urged that in view of this essential requirement it has to be held that the Act does not cover the case of a member of the higher judiciary while in office and consequently it cannot be made applica ble to him even after his retirement.
Thus although more than one person are involved in the process, it is not permissible to say that no authority exists for the purpose of exercising the power to remove a High Court Judge from his office.
It has been strenuously contended by Mr. Sibal, learned counsel for the appellant, that the Constitution envisages an independent judiciary, and to achieve this goal it is essential that the other limbs of the State including the executive and the lagislature should be denied a posi tion from where the judiciary can be pressurized.
If it is held that a member of the higher judiciary is not liable to prosecution for an offence under Section 5 on account of the requirement of previous sanction under Section 6, it will follow that he will be immune from ' the prosecution not only under Section 5(1)(e) as is the present case, but also for the other offences under Clauses (a) to (d).
Otherwise, there will be scope left for the Judge concerned to claim that although he may be facing prosecution or may have been even convicted after trial, he still continues to be a Judge entitled to exercise his powers, as he has not been removed from his office.
He argued that the special provisions in the Constitution of India relating to the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court clearly indicate that they are not within the purview of the Act and that after their appointment in the manner prescribed, they are wholly immune from executive influence, their tenure being fixed by the Constitution, except for removal in the manner prescribed by Article 124(4).
They argued that there is no immunity to the superior Judges as in the case of the President and the Governor under Article 36 1 of the Constitution and, therefore, there was no reason to exclude to superior Judges from the purview of the Act.
The real question, therefore, is: Whether these constitutional functionaries were intended to be included in the definition of 'public servant ', as defined in the Act, and the existing enacted law is to that effect.
But jewellery constitute important assets and if excluded from the definition of movable property, the balance sheet submitted by the Government servant may not set out the true picture." (emphasis supplied) In view of the decision by a Constitution Bench in R.S. Nayak vs A.R. Antulay, the correctness of which was not disputed before us, we have to assume for the purpose of this case that no sanction under Section 6 of the Act was required for prosecution of the appellant since cognizance of the offence was taken after the appellant ceased to hold the office of Chief Justice on 7.4.1976 on his retirement.
Each of the three clauses of subsection (1) of Section 6 uses the expression 'office ' and the power to grant sanction is conferred on the authority competent to remove the public servant from his office and Section 6 requires a sanction before taking cognizance of offences committed by public servant.
The expression 'office ' in the three sub clauses of Section 6(1) would clear ly denote that office which the public servant misused or abused for corrupt motives for which he is to be prosecuted and in respect of which a sanction to prosecute him is necessary by the competent authority 288 entitled to remove him from that office which he has abused.
Therefore, it unquestionably follows that the sanction to prosecute can be given by an authority competent to remove the public servant from the office which he has misused or abused because that authority alone would be able to know whether there has been a misuse or abuse of the office by the public servant and not some rank outsider.
(See Mohd. lqbal Ahmad vs State of A.P., ; ; Legislature advisedly conferred power on the authority competent to remove the public servant from the office to grant sanction for the obvious reason that that authority alone would be able, when facts and evidence are placed before him, to judge whether a serious offence is committed or the prosecution is either frivolous or specula tive.
The investigating officer is not holding an enquiry against the conduct of the public servant or deter mining the disputed issues regarding the disproportionality between the assets and the income of the accused.
If the legislature had intended to exclude the High Court and Supreme Court Judges from the field of Section 5 of the Act, it could have said so in unambiguous terms instead of adopting the wide meaning of the expression "public servant" as given in the Indian Penal Code.
It was suggested at the hearing that the guidelines so suggested and supplied with the aid of which the existing law could be made applicable to supe rior Judges would be akin to the exercise performed by this Court while dealing with the Administrative Tribunals Act in S.P. Sam path Kumar vs Union of India & Ors., ; I am afraid this analogy is not apt there being no similarity in the two situations.
The 1964 amendment made in the Act pursuant to the recommendations of the Santhanam Commit tee did not make any amendment in the Act to indicate that Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court were also brought within the purview of the Act.
The ambit of the enactment is to be determined on the basis of the public office held by the public serv ant, which office is alleged to have been abused during the tenure for committing the offence of criminal misconduct under the Act and it is not the fact of continuance in that office or ceasing to hold it which decides the ambit of the enactment.
Any attempt to bring the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court within the purview of the Prevention of Corruption Act by a seemingly constructional exercise of the enactment, appears to me, in all humility, an exercise to fit a square peg in a round hole when the two were never intended to match.
The statement in Santha nam Committee 's report that the members did not consider judiciary to be included in the terms of the reference, is not of much help as admittedly the Act applies to the mem bers of the subordinate judiciary.
Taking into consideration the independence of judiciary as envisaged by the Constitution, it has further been observed that the Chief Justice of India will have to be 267 consulted in the matter and steps would have to be taken in accordance with his advice.
In my considered view laying down guidelines to be implicitly obeyed, if they find no place in the existing enactment and to bring the superior Judges within the purview of the existing law on that basis, would amount to enacting a .
The special law envisaged by Article 124(5) for dealing with the misbehaviour of a Judge covers the field of 'investigation ' and 'proof ' of the 'misbehaviour ' and the only punishment provided is by Article 124(4) of removal from office.
