If the resultant effect of administering into the system pro duces a violent, morbid or fatal changes or which destroys living tissues, the substance can be safely called poison.
It states that the State Government may by rule regulate the posses sion of any specified poison in any local area in which the use of such poison for the purpose of committing murder or mischief by poisoning cattle appears to it to be of such frequent occurrence as to render restriction on the posses sion thereof desirable.
The notification and its application to any area would depend on the necessity 225 to declare the substance as poison on the particular facts and situation prevailing in that area and the need to regu late the possession and sale in that area.
It is in exercise of this power Rule 13 was amended by substituting the old Rule by the following Rule: "13 (1) All poisons kept for sale by any licence holder under these rules (except those kept by a chemist, druggist or compounder for the purchase of dispensing or compounding in compliance with the prescription of medical or veterinary practitioner) shall be kept in a box, almirah, room or building (according to the quantity maintained), which shall be secured by lock and key and in which no sub stance shall be placed other than poisons, possessed in accordance with a licence granted under the Act, and each poison shall .be kept within such box, almirah, room or building in a separate closed receptacle of glass, metal or earthenware.
It has become a notorious fact, which we can even take judicial notice of, that the substance known as 'thinner ' as it is or mixing with some other substances are taken as intoxicating spirits endangering the life.
Every such box, almirah, room or building and every receptacle shall be marked with the word 'poison ' in red charac ters both English and vernacular and in the case of receptacles containing separate 'poison ' with the name of such 'poison '.
(ii) All 'poisons ' mentioned in clause (x) of rule 2 shall be kept in a room or building (according to quantity maintained) which shall be secured by lock and key in a separate receptacle of glass, metal and earthenware etc.
It is those substances which the Govern ment consider its possession for sale or sale to be regulat ed in the interest of health and safety of the society.
" We are not impressed with the argument that any require ment in this Rule is unreasonable or offends the petition ers ' right to carry on any trade or business.
Every such room building and every such receptacle shall be marked with the word 'poison ' in red character both English and vernacular, with the name of the 'poison '.
It is a busi ness which can be termed even as inherently dangerous to health and safety of society in view of the rampant misuse and sale to the poor, weak and helpless as an intoxicant.
If the Government thought in the circumstances that the posses sion or sale of the same is to be regulated it could not be said that they have no power to regulate.
Rule nisi is discharged.
Nothing is a poison unless regard be had to its administration.
Substances harmless in themselves might become poison by the time or manner of their adminis tration.
The writ petition accordingly fails and it is dismissed.
That is what the Government have done in this case.
We are of opinion that the provisions of neither Section 2 nor 5 nor the impugned notification are hit by any consti tutional limitation.
Under this term would fall anything calcu lated to destroy life.
This posi tion is well settled and it would be pedantic to cite all the authorities of this Court on this point.
Section 4 of the Act impliedly sets out certain guidelines when the State can notify a substance as poison.
