Accord ing to section 15 of this Act before its amendment in1960, in the case of sale of a share out of joint land or proper ty, the right of preemption was conferred firstly on the lineal descendents of the vendor in order of succession; secondly, in the co sharers, if any, who are agnates, in order of succession; thirdly in persons not included under firstly or secondly above, in order of succession, who but for such sale would be entitled, on death of the vendor, to inherit the land or property sold and fourthly, in the co sharers.
Section 15 after its amendment in 1960 provided that where the sale is of a share out of the joint land or property and is not by all the co sharers jointly, the right of pre emption was vested, first, in the sons or daughters or son 's son or daughter 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Secondly, in the brothers or brother 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Thirdly, in the father 's brother or father 's broth er 's sons of the vendor or vendors Fourthly, in the other co sharers and Fifthly n the tenants.
Since this Court found certain intrinsic contradictions in the list of relatives covered by the first three clauses, it saw no justification for the classification contained in the said provision conferring a right based on consanguinity and, therefore, struck down those clauses:as discriminatory and violative of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution.
Once conferment of the right of pre emption in favour of co sharers was considered to be a reasonable restriction on the right to hold, acquire and dispose of property under Article 19(1) (f), the same re striction was held to be valid when tested on the touchstone of Articles 14 or 15 of the Constitution.
Counsel for the appellant, however, contended that the interpretation placed by the two judge Bench on the expression 'other co sharers ' in section 15(1)(b) requires reconsideration as it leads to certain anomalous situation e.g. a sister who is a co sharer can claim pre emption while her brother cannot or a daughter 's daughter of the vendor can claim pre emption but not the son.
Read in the context, it becomes clear that the legislature desired to confer the right of pre emption on specified family members of the vendor or vendors in the first three clauses of section 15(1)(b) and with a view to covering all the remaining co sharers not specifically mentioned the preceding clauses it used the expression 'other co sharers ' in the fourth clause which was meant to serve as a residuary clause to ensure 127 that, no co sharer is left out.
Therefore, the petition ers cannot claim the right of pre emption under clause 'Fourthly ' We do not, therefore, find any substance in this contention. " In the present case also the appellant seeks to exercise the right of pre emption as a co sharer i.e. father 's broth er 's son of the vendors.
Under the Punjab Pre emption Act, 1905, the corresponding provision, section 12, con ferred a right of pre emption, in the case of a sale of a share of such land or properly held jointly, firstly, in the lineal discendents of the vendor in male line in order of succession; secondly, in the co sharers, if any, who are agnates, in order of succession; thirdly, in the persons described in sub clause (a) i.e. in persons who but for such sale would be entitled to inherit the properly in the event of his or their decease, in order of succession and fourth ly, in the co sharers jointly or severally.
We find it diffi cult to hold that the purport of the of Court 's decision in Attam Prakash 's case was to deny the right of pre emption to those relative or relatives of the vendor or vendors who were specified in the erstwhile first three clauses of section 15(1)(b) even if they happen to be co sharers.
128 We direct that on the appellant plaintiff depositing the entire amount of sale price together with the amount needed for the stamp duty for the execution of the conveyance in his favour within three months from today, the purchaser respondent No. 1 shah within one month of such deposit execute a conveyance of the land, i.e. his share therein derived from his vendors, in favour of the appellant and shall deliver possession thereof to the appellant.
What this Court disapproved as offen sive to Articles 14 and 15 is the classification based on consanguinity and not on co ownership.
The courts below 126 have negatived this contention solely on the ground that it cannot stand after the pronouncement of this Court in the case of Jagdish (supra).
If the preceding clauses were not erased from the statute book as unconstitu tional the kinsfolk would have exercised the right in the order of preference, for which no justification was found.
