(4)[1950] (5) 269 argument does not take note of the definition of total income total world income ' and chargeability of total income under section 3 or the provisions of section 4 where in the case of a resident 'total income ' includes income, profits and gains accruing within or without I British India.
The proper function of a proviso is that it qualifies the generality of the main enactment, by providing an exception and taking out as it were, from the main enactment, a portion which, but for the proviso would fall within the main enactment.
This Court in Anglo French Textiles Co. Ltd. vs Commissioner of Incometax, Madras (1) again emphasised that distinction in the following words: " Next, a, set off under section 24(1) can only be claimed when the loss arises under one head and the profits against which it is sought to be set off arises under a different head.
Bhagwati, J., in Ram Narain Sons Ltd. vs Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax (2) said: " It is a cardinal rule of interpretation that a proviso to a particular provision of a statute only embraces the field which is covered by the main provision.
Lord Macmillan in Madras & Southern Mahratta Railway Co. vs Bezwada Municipality (3) laid down the sphere of a proviso as follows : " The proper function of a proviso is to except and deal with a case which would otherwise fall within the general language of the main enactment, and its effect is confined to that case.
that the intention of the Legislature was to restrict the set off of profits and losses arising in Indian States only to business or to modify the mode of computation under section 10 of the Indian Act.
Therefore to say that business in section 10 means business in British India or business the profits or gains of which are taxable in British India is to ignore the definitions and sections 3, 4 and 6.
Sir George Rankin said at p. 241 " In their Lordships ' opinion, whether a firm is registered or unregistered, partnership does not obstruct or defeat the right of a partner to an adjustment on account of his share of loss in the firm, whether the set off be against other profits under the same (1) (1936) L.R. 63 I.A. 233 265 head of income within the meaning of section 6 of the Act or under a different head (in which case only need recourse be had to section 24, sub section 1) ".
This section was introduced in 1922 before which under the Indian Act of 1918 a loss under one head of income could not be set off against income under another head, the taxability of income arising from each head being separate.
But then it was said that as the profits or gains of business in an Indian State were exempted from payment of tax in British India business in section 10 must mean business in British India.
Where, as in the present case, the language of the main enactment is clear and unambiguous, a proviso can have no repercussion on the interpretation of the main enactment, so as to exclude from it by implication what clearly falls within its express terms ".
It is significant that in sections 2(13) and (5) of the Indian Act of 1918 corresponding to sections 2(15) and 6 of the Indian Act of 1922 the word used was" income " which in the latter Act was expanded into " income, profits and gains ".
It has to operate in the same field and if the language of the main enactment is clear it cannot be used for the purpose of interpreting the main enactment or to exclude by implication what the enactment clearly says unless the words of the proviso are such that that is its necessary effect.
It was then submitted that in the proviso the words used were " where the loss sustained is a loss of profits or gains " and therefore it necessarily applied to the head " business " in the two respective territories.
Thus the mere use of the words loss of profits or gains to be, set off against profits and gains would not be sufficient to restrict the scope of the proviso to the profits and losses arising under the head business in the two territories, i. e., British India and the Indian States.
There it was held that section 10 of the Indian Act had to be read with section 14(2) (e) and if profits could not be added for the purposes of total income ' losses sustained also could not be deducted.
Counsel for the Revenue did not go to this extent that because profits were exempted losses could not be deducted; his argument was that because before 1939 income was not chargeable unless it was received or accrued in British India therefore business in section 10 could only mean business in British India.
Thus the Privy Council emphasised that the object of section 24(1) was to allow a set off of profits against losses arising under different heads and Only in such cases could recourse be had to section 24(1).
When the two arise under the same head, of course the loss can be deducted but that is done under section 10 and not under section 24(1) (Per Bose, J.) Indeed it is not disputed that when profit and loss arose under the same head in any place which was not an Indian State recourse had to be had to the provisions of sections 7 to 12B and not to any other section.
But it was contended on behalf of the Revenue that the first proviso to section 24(1) of the Indian Act not only affected the generality of the main enactment but also introduced an addendum that where the profits of the business arose in what was British India in the case of the Indian Act or what was Travancore State in the case of the Travancore Act and the losses under the head business were sustained in an Indian State or in the latter case in any other Indian State or British India, these losses could not by virtue of the proviso be deducted from profits made in British India or Travancore State as the case may be.
