It is clear from the judgment under appeal that the Board had by its order dated 14th April, 1975 directed that the ceiling, area may be determined according to old law i.e. Act of 1955 and it spite of it the Sub Divisional Officer committed the grave illegality on not merely ignoring the law but also ignoring the directions of the Board of Revenue itself.
Divisional Officer, Assistant Collectors and Tehsildars in a district shall be subordinate to the Collector thereof, (c)all Assistant Collectors, Tehsildars and Naib Tehsildars in a sub division shall be subordinate to the Sub Divisional Officer thereof, and (d) All Additional Tehsildars and Naib Tehsildars in a tehsil shall be subordinate to the Tehsildar thereof.
In the Government of India Act of 1935, there was provision under Section 224 for superintendence by the High Courts ', but subsection(2) made it clear that this superintendence would not be construed as giving to the High Court any jurisdiction to question any judgment of any inferior court which was not otherwise subject to appeal or revision.
Section 9 whereof provides as under: "9 Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the general superintendence and control over all revenue courts and over all revenue officers shall be vested in, and all such Courts and Officers shall be subordinate to, the Board.
There also there was similar provision like Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act and it was held that Section 12 of the said Ordinance must be held to give powers to the Board to revise judicial orders also passed by courts in appropriate cases.
The High Court also did not go into the merits of the controversy nor we have thought it advisable to into it and it would be for the Sub Divisional Officer, Hanumangarh to decide it in the light of the observations of the Board.
Thus there is no restriction on the powers of the Board to set aside the order of the Sub Divisional Officer provided it comes to the conclusion that interest of justice requires exercise of such powers.
The Board noticed that there was no provision for separate unit in Chapter III B of tile Act of 1955 and the applicant Raghubir Singh and his son Surendrapal Singh constituted one unit and not two units and the case was remanded to Sub Divisional Officer, Hanumangarh, for de novo determination of the ceiling area for the appellant in law.
" In that case also the High Court took the view that it is not correct to say that Section 9 is limited to the executive control and superintendence of the Board over subordinate revenue courts and it does not apply to judicial proceedings.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is similar to Section 107 of the Government of India Act, 1915 and there is no section like sub section (2) of Section 224 of the Government of India Act of 1935 in the Act of 1955.
It is open to the Board to exercise its powers of superintendence on all its subordinate courts in order to regulate the functioning of ' the subordinate courts so as to keep them within their respective spheres of jurisdiction.
Under Section 107 of the Government of India Act, 1955 there was provision of superintendence by High Court in these terms : 728 Each of the High Courts has superintendence over all the courts for the time being subject to its appellate jurisdiction.
" The contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that the section confers executive powers of superintendence and control on the Board and it does not vest any power of superintendence on the Board on judicial side.
