Section 9 lays down the modes of termination of tenancy which are (a) by the tenant surrendering his right to the landlord in the manner provided in section 10; or (b) by the landlord terminating the tenancy on the grounds specified in section 11; or (c) under any other specific provision of the Act.
By virtue of section 7 any question whether a person is a tenant or a deemed tenant was required to be decided by the Mamlatdar and the jurisdiction of the Civil Court stood ousted by section 58(2) of the Act.
If a suit is filed to recover possession of agricultural land from a trespasser and no dispute arises, the adjudication whereof is required to be done by the special machinery set up under the Act, the Civil Court will continue to have jurisdiction.
However, during the pendency of the suit, a notification was issued under section 6 of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947, (hereinafter called 'the Rent Act ') applying Part II of the Act to areas where the property in question was situate.
The tenants claimed protection of section 12 in Part 11 of the Rent Act which deprived the landlord of the right of possession under certain circumstance 1029 The question which arose for consideration was whether the tenants were entitled to the protection of section 12 in pending cases and if yes, its effect.
" Pursuant to the court 's recommendation, the Bombay Legislature introduced section 85A which provided that if in any suit instituted in a Civil Court issues which are required to be settled, decided and dealt with by any authority patent to settle, decide and deal with the same arises, the Civil Court shall stay the suit and refer such issues to such competent authority for determination under the statute.
In the circumstances, we are left with no alternative but to remit the matter to the Trial Court with a direction to follow the course that may be found appropriate in the fact situation arising out of the pleadings in this case and the nature of the questions required to be determined for grant or refusal of relief claimed in the suit.
We would like to make it clear that the hypothetical situations may or may not apply to the fact situation that may emanate of the pleadings in this case and it would be for the Trial Court to determine the course of action to be adopted in the light of the guidelines indicated hereinabove.
Even in cases of threatened wrongful possession section 8A says that any tenant in possession of any land or dwelling house who apprehends that he may be dispossessed contrary to the provisions of this Act may apply in the prescribed manner to the Mamlatdar for an order safeguarding his right to possession.
It will thus be seen that the Act sets up an independent machinery and invests the Mamlatdar with jurisdiction to decide questions such as : (i) Whether any person is a tenant or should be deemed to be a tenant under the Act? (ii) Whether the possession of any tenant in regard to any land or dwelling house is threatened and if so, whether an order safeguarding the same is required? (iii) Whether the tenancy of any deemed tenant is legally terminated and if no, whether the tenant evicted from the land held by him as such is entitled to restoration of possession? The jurisdiction of the civil court is specifically barred by sub section (2) of Section 58 from settling, deciding or dealing with any question which is by or under the Act required to be settled, decided and dealt with by the Mamlatdar.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that it would be just and fair that the issue whether defendant No.1 was a tenant in respect of the lands in question should be referred to the Mamlatdar for decision and after his decision is received by the Civil Court if the issue is held against defendant No.1, the Civil Court may consider passing of a decree in eviction but if on the other hand he is held to be tenant, the Civil Court may be required to dismiss the suit.
There may arise a situation where the entire dispute pending before the Civil Court can be adjudicated by the special machinery only and not the Civil Court, what procedure the 1028 Civil Court follow in such a situation? In the case of the first mentioned situation there is no difficulty as the Civil Court will continue to have jurisdiction to settle and decide the dispute and grant appropriate relief The problem arises in the two other situations where the jurisdiction of the Civil Court is partly or wholly ousted.
The jurisdiction is, therefore, vested in the Mamlatdar under section 7 of the Act and section 58(2) specifically bars the jurisdiction of all other courts to settle, decide or deal with any question which is by or under the Act required to be settled, decided or dealt with by the Mamlatdar.
If the question of tenancy in regard to agricultural land cannot be decided by the Civil Court under the Act and there is no express saving clause permitting the Civil Court to decide the same, it is obvious that any decision rendered by the Civil Court would be without jurisdiction.
In Shah Yograj Kuverji Oil Mills and Ginning Factory vs Subhash Chandra Yograj Sinha, ; = ; the facts were that the landlord had filed a suit for eviction on April 25, 1957 in the regular court, i.e., the Court of the Joint Civil Judge (Junior Division), Erandol, which admittedly had jurisdiction to pass a decree for possession of the demised premises.
This question squarely arose for consideration by the Bombay High Court in Dhondi Tukaram vs Hari Dadu AIR 1954 Bom 100 ILR wherein that court observed as under: "Therefore, we hold that in a suit filed against the defendant on the footing that he is a trespasser if he raises the plea that he is a tenant or a protected tenant, the Civil Court would have no jurisdiction to deal with that plea. .
As pointed out earlier, section 7 in terms states that if any question arises whether any person is a tenant or should be deemed to be a tenant under the Act, the Mamlatdar shall decide such question.
What procedure should the court follow in such situations? It would not stand to reason to non suit the plaintiff who had filed the suit in a competent court having jurisdiction to try the same merely because of the subsequent change in law.
Since the paper book in this appeal does not contain the original plaint and the written statement and counsel were unable to enlighten us on the actual nature of the pleadings we have tried to indicate the procedure to be followed by the Civil Court on illustrative fact situations.
Three situations, therefore, develop in the context of the provisions of the Act as amended by the Fifth Amendment, namely, (i) the Civil Court retains jurisdiction or (ii) the Civil Court is precluded from deciding, even incidentally, questions failing within the ambit of section 7 of the Act or (iii) the Civil Court 's jurisdiction is wholly ousted.
In such a situation what procedure should the Civil Court follow ? Now take a case where the entire dispute falls within the exclusive jurisdiction of the special machinery under the Act and had the litigation commenced after the Fifth Amendment was brought into force it could not have been instituted in a Civil Court.
In that case he would be entitled to recover immediate possession of the land in the manner prescribed by or under the Act unless it is shown that his tenancy was terminated in the manner authorised by section 9.
We would, however, like to add that in all such cases where the Civil Court cannot entertain the plea and accepts the objection that it has no jurisdiction to try it, it should not proceed to dismiss the suit straightaway.
