In other words, the third proviso, according to learned counsel 559 for the appellant, merely enables the Government to exercise the right conferred on it by the second proviso and therefore, the Government, if it intends to avail itself of the right under the second proviso, must comply with the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
In other words, the true meaning of the second proviso is said to be that rights created after July 1, 1945, are only voidable at the instance of the Government and that being the position, the Government must do some overt act to terminate the transaction.
The words " such rights refer in the second proviso only to the right dealt with in the body of the section, and those words occurring in the third proviso, should also bear the same interpretation.
The true effect of the section can be stated in three proposi tions: (i) Rights validly created prior to 1st July, 1945, will be valid; (ii) such rights, however, may be determined under the third proviso if it is in the public interest to do so and in such cases, compensation will be payable under section 20(2); and (iii) rights created after 1st July, 1945, if they are for a period exceeding one year, are liable to be avoided under the second proviso.
But assuming that the effect of the second proviso is to make the rights created after July 1, 1945, only voidable and not void, all that follows is that the Government must do something to avoid them.
The machinery for such a termination, it is urged, is to be found in the third proviso and the conclusion is pressed upon us that such termination can be brought about only on the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
In other words, while under the second proviso the Government can terminate the lease at its option and unconditionally, under proviso (iii) that can be done only if it is in (1) I.L.R. ,1195.
The reason for conferment of such an unconditional right on the Government is well known, for it was on that crucial date that the party which came into power later declared its intention to abolish all zemindaries and intermediary interest in land.
" It is pointed out that the attention of the Madras High Court was not drawn to the rule framed by the Governor of Madras in exercise of powers conferred on him by section 67 (1) and (2) of the Abolition Act.
