Appeal by special leave from the Award dated March 10 1959 of the Industrial Tribunal.
A V Viswanatha Sastri and T V R Tatachari for the appellant Janardan Sharma for the resondents.
January 29.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by WANCHOOJ.
This is an appeal by special leave in an industrial matter.
The appellant in a saw mill carrying on business in Kozihkode in 824 the State of Kerala.
One Sankaran was in the employ of the appellant as a crosscutter.
He was caught hold of by other workmen and taken outside.
It is said that he came again a short time later at 4 30 pm and abused the same persons again.
Thereupon the appellant served a charge sheet on Sankaran on June 24 1958 acting out the above facts and asked him to show cause why his services should not be terminated on account of his grave indiscipline and misconduct.
The tribunal held that 825 something seemed to have happened on the afternoon of June 21 1958 but there was no evidence to prove what had actually happened.
The tribunal was of the view that this was a colourable exercise of the power given under r 18a to the appellant and therefore its action could not be upheld as a bona fide exercise of the power conferred.
Two witnesses were produced before the tribunal in connection with the alleged misconduct but the tribunal did not rely on them on the ground that the important witnesses namely the Engineer the Secretary and other members of the staff whose evidence would have been of more value had not been produced and no explanation had been given why they were not produced.
The appellant thereupon applied for special leave which was granted and that is how the matter has come up before us.
As far back as 1952 the Labour Appellate Tribunal had occasion to consider this matter relating to discharge by notice or in lieu thereof by payment of wages for a certain period without assigning any reason see Buckingham and Carnatic Co Ltd Etg.
vs Workers of the Company.
etc 1.
The reason given by the appellant in the order terminating the services of Sankaran of July 8 1958 namely that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if Sankaran were retained in service cannot be accepted at its face value so that the necessity for an inquiry intended to be held for misconduct actually charged might be done away with.
It is urged that the same principle should be applied to industrial adjudication.
The appellant failed to satisfy the tribunal when the matter came before it for adjudication that the exercise of the power in this case was bona fide and was not colourable.
Appeal dismissed.
