ivil Appeal No 325 of 1965.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated September 20 1963 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in Reference CG IT 25 of 1962.
section V Gupte Solicitor General M Rajagopalan and K R Choudhuri for the appellants.
C B Agarwala J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and Ravinder Narain for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah J.
This is an appeal by special leave against an award dated September 20 1963 made by the Presiding Officer of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in a reference made by the Government of India under section 102 of the .
The appellants are the workmen of the Bombay Port Trust who are and have been represented in this dispute by the Bombay Port Trust Employees  Union.
The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
The reference was made on a joint application of the parties.
and the matter in dispute was stated to be  Whether the existing system of work of the shore crew of the Prince s and Victoria Docks under which each shift consists of 8 hours  normal duty 2 hours  variable recess and 12 hours  overtime needs any modification The Tribunal by the award impugned here held that the Union was not able to establish that the existing system of work needed any modification.
The Port Trust had under its control several docks.
Reference in this judgment will be made to the Prince s and Victoria Docks the Alexandra Docks Butcher Island and the Flotilla Crew.
These represent different areas of work where different groups of workmen were employed.
From the facts appearing on the record it appears that the Trustees first introduced a two shift system of work in the Alexandra Docks on June 30 1953 and the same system was extended to the Prince s and Victoria Docks on December 15 1953.
Previously the shore crew at all these places worked in a single shift and were liable to be called out at 634 any hour of the day or night.
When the two shift system began each shift of 12 hours was broken up into 8 hours  duty 2 hours  variable recess and 2 hours  overtime.
The hours of rest were kept variable as they depended on the tides.
In 1956 the workmen who were then represented by the Port Trust General Workers  Union made a demand for a fixed recess of two hours.
The Trustees apprehended that this was a device to get 4 hours  overtime and rejected the demand.
The General Workers Union was informed that if the demand was pressed a three shift system would be introduced.
The workmen then retraced their steps and accepted a 2 hours  variable recess but requested that it should be as near the middle of the shift as possible.
The Trustees agreed to accept the hours of rest at fixed hours in the Alexandra Docks but at the Prince s and Victoria Docks they kept it variable agreeing to fix it as near the middle of the duty hours as possible.
Under this arrangement the shore crew working at the Prince s and Victoria Docks were informed each day what the period of rest would be on the following day.
In explanation of this difference it may be pointed out that the Alexandra Docks work on a system of lock gates which enables the depth of water at the docks to be artificially regulated but the Prince s and Victoria Docks being tidal work only at high tide.
It was thus possible to fix rest hours at the Alexandra Docks for half the crew different from the rest hours of the other half so that a part of the crew was always available on hand.
As the lock gates control the depth of water in the Alexandra Docks fixed hours of rest could be maintained from day to day except in the monsoon months when the storm gates had some time to be closed.
During these months recess time at the Alexandra Docks was also variable and was made to coincide with the closure of the storm gates.
The workmen at the Alexandra Docks seemed to have accepted a variable recess of two hours but the Port Trust gave a notice under section 9A of the on June 25 1960 announcing the introduction of variable recess although in the months other than the monsoon months recess was actually at fixed hours.
The workmen opposed the change from fixed to variable recess.
Meanwhile studies were being made and it was found that the work hours at the different Docks were not equal they were heavier at the Alexandra Docks than at the other docks.
Thus the 12 hours  shift at the Alexandra Docks was 8 hours  of duty 3 hours  overtime and one hour variable recess.
This system was however 635 not extended to the prince s and Victoria Docks and Butcher Island.
The Union contended that this division of 12 hours  shift into 8 hours  work 2 hours  rest and 2 hours  overtime violated the provisions of the and that the so called period of rest was illusory since being variable it was some times given right at the commencement of the shift and some times at the end depending on the tides or the exigencies of the work.
This claim was opposed by the Trustees.
According to them there was no breach of the provisions of the .
They contended that regard being had to the number of actual work hours the case of shore crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks and the Butcher Island could not be compared with that of the crew at the Alexandra Docks or the Flotilla Crew.
On behalf of the Union the learned Solicitor General has argued the case almost entirely from the legal stand point and has attempted to establish that the break up of a 12 hours  shift into 8 hours  duty 2 hours  rest and 2 hours  overtime offends the .
He has in addition submitted that the system of variable recess does not satisfy the requirements of rest which is the basis for fixing statutorily the hours of work in relation to wages.
The was enacted to enable Government to fix minimum rates of wages in certain employments.
Since fixation of minimum wages must take into account the work load also provision must not only be made for prescribing the minimum wage but to correlate it to a specified amount of work.
Any extra work beyond the specified work load must be paid for at a higher or what is known as overtime rate.
Similarly intervals of rest must punctuate suitably the hours of work and they must also be provided for in a scheme of the work day of a workman.
The makes provision for all these matters either by itself or through Rules.
The Central Government has framed the Minimum Wages Central Rules 1950.
The Act and the 636 Rules between them provide not only for fixation of minimum wages but also for the work load in relation to which the minimum wages are to be prescribed.
They provide on the one hand for minimum wages lay down the procedure for fixing or revising them and prescribe the rules in accordance with which the wages must be paid.
It is admitted that the present workmen come under the Schedule.
The hours of work and the payment of overtime are therefore governed by the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages Central Rules 1950 and the controversy in this case must be appreciated and resolved in accordance with them.
We shall now turn to these provisions.
The sections are Nos 13 and 14 and the rules Nos 24 and 25.
The whole of the matter in dispute admittedly is governed by these four provisions.
Fixing hours for a normal working day etc.
 14 Overtime.
1 Where an employee whose minimum rate of wages is fixed under this Act by the hour by the day or by such a longer wage period as may be prescribed works on any day in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate fixed under this Act or under any law of the appropriate Government for the time being in force whichever is higher.
 Rule 24.
2 The working day of an adult worker shall be so arranged that inclusive of the intervals for rest if any it shall not spread over more than twelve hours on any day.
4      4 A No Child shall be employed or permitted to work for more than 4 12 hours on any day.
5 Nothing in this rule shall be deemed to affect the provisions of the .
Explanation The expression ordinary rate of wages means the basic wage plus such allowances including the cash equivalent of the advantages accruing through the concessional sale to the person employed of foodgrains and other articles as the person employed is for the time being entitled to but does not include a bonus.
2 A register showing overtime payment shall be kept in form IV.
Unfortunately the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages 639 Central Rules 1950 are not as clear as the corresponding provisions of the and they have led to long arguments before us.
We shall refer to the provisions of the later because for the present we must consider the provisions of the Act and the Rules without drawing any assistance from the .
That is done by the Rules.
Daily hours.
