P Raghaviah and R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Gajendragadkar CJ.
The present appeal has been brought to this Court by special leave and it arises from a suit filed by the appellants against four respondents.
The properties involved in the suit consist of agricultural lands situated in Eragudi village Musiri taluk Tiruchirappalli district.
The original grantdeeds are not available but at the time of the settlement of the Inams in the sixties of the last century Inam title deeds were issued in favour of the family of Pachai Kandai Udayavar.
The appellants averred that the properties covered by the grant bad been granted in Inam to the original grantee burdened with the obligation of performing certain services in a Matam.
The said properties were alienated from time to time and as a result of the last alienation the appellants became entitled to them.
The appellants in the present litigation claimed a declaration about their title to the properties in suit and a permanent injunction restraining respondents 1 to 3 who claimed to be the trustees of an alleged Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple at Eragudi from interfering with their possession of the same.
Respondent No 4 is the Deputy Commissioner Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments L9Sup.
Respondents 1 to 3 who have been appointed as trustees of the said temple by respondent No 4 obtained a certificate from him that the properties in question belonged to the Temple and on the basis of the said certificate they had filed an application before the Magistrate having jurisdiction in the area under section 87 of the Act for possession.
Notice of this application was served on the appellants and they pleaded their own title to the properties.
The Magistrate however over ruled the claim made by the appellants and directed them to deliver possession of the properties to respondents 1 to 3.
Before this order could be executed and possession delivered to respondents 1 to 3 the appellants instituted the present suit.
Respondents 1 to 3 resisted this suit and contended that the properties in suit had not been granted to the predecessor of Pachai Kandai Udayavar as alleged by the appellants.
Their case was that the said properties had been granted to the Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple and formed part of its properties.
As trustees appointed by respondent No 4 they claimed that they were entitled to the possession of the properties.
On these pleadings four substantive issues were framed by the learned trial Judge they were  whether the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam whether the grant of the Inam was a religious endowment whether plaintiffs have title to the suit properties and whether plaintiffs have acquired title by prescription  On the first two issues oral and documentary evidence was adduced by the parties.
The learned trial Judge examined the whole evidence and came to the conclusion that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam and that it was not a grant in favour of the religious endowment within the meaning of the Act.
That is how the first two issues were answered in favour of the appellants.
In consequence the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
The lower appellate Court made a finding against respondents 1 to 3 on point No 2.
It held that the evidence adduced by the respondents did not prove the existence of any temple in favour of which the original grant had been alleged to have been made according to them.
On that view it thought it unnecessary to consider the first point.
The alienations must therefore be regarded only as repudiation of the trust.
Subrahmanyam J who heard this appeal held that the original grant had been made in favour of the Temple.
There was evidence to show that the properties originally granted had been resumed by the Collector but the learned Judge took the view that the said resumption was only of the melwaram or assessment and that since the lands had been granted in Inam to the deity and its matam their title to the lands remained unaffected by the resumption proceedings.
In other words he negatived the appellants  claim that the original grant was in favour of their predecessors intitle though burdened with an obligation to render service to the matam.
The learned Judge reversed the finding of the lower appellate Court that the existence of the Temple had not been proved.
A 2 in 1914 were held to be outside the mischief of article 134B.
A 7 and A 8 were also held to be outside the scope of article 134 B because the said article does not cover auction sales.
That left the alienations covered by Exts.
In the result the appellants  claim in regard to the properties covered by these three sale deeds was rejected whereas their claim in regard to the other prop erties.
was upheld.
1962 p 282.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
Article 124 relates to suits filed for possession of a hereditary office and the limitation prescribed for such suits starts when the defendant takes possession of the office adversely to the plaintiff.
49 50.
131 him.
The transferor is Pachaikandaswamiar.
A 3 A 6 and A 12 and restore that of the lower appellate Court.
