Appeal No 949 of 1966.
M C Chagla and B R Agarwala for the appellant.
section T Desai R N Sachthey and B D Sharma for the respondent.
The appeal was originally heard by J C Shah Ag.
CJ V Ramaswami and A N Grover JJ.
The case was twice re manded to the Tribunal.
There were two partners of the firm Mohanlal Sagmal and Seshmal Sobhachand and Ramniklal and Lakshmichand minors were admitted to the benefits of the partnership each with 732 share in the profits.
Sobhachand one of the partners of Bhojaji Sobhachand with 16 share in the profit and loss is the father of Seshmal Ramniklal and Lakshmichand partners of the appellants.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect of their business transactions.
The following is a table showing the balances at the end of the Samvat years 2003 Amount Interest At the end of the Samvat Year 2003 Cr16951 00 2004 Dr102188 4 5Dr.
2633 9 3 2005 Cr27815 0 0Dr.
483 1 9 2006 Cr11975 0 0Cr.
The Income tax Officer disallowed their claim holding that  these transactions were mere accommodations which can have no bearing to the regular business carried on by the assessee.
 The Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the Income tax Officer.
He held that the debt .
did not arise in the course of the appellants  business as chemists and druggists nor in the course of their money lending business.
The Income tax Appellate Tribunal accordingly confirmed the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
The question referred was therefore answered in the affirmative and against the appellants.
Section 102 xi of the Indian Income tax Act 1922 as in force at the relevant time provided  2 Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances namely  xi When the assessee s accounts in respect of any part of his business profession or vocation are not kept on the cash basis such sum in respect of bad and doubtful debts due to the assessee in 807SupCI71 418 respect of that part of his business profession or vocation and in the case of an assessee carrying on a banking or money lending business such sum in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business as the Income tax Officer may estimate to be irrecoverable but not exceeding the amount actually written off as irrecoverable in the books of the assessee Provided      Clause xi was in two parts.
debt written off relying upon both the branches of section 10 2 xi and by the application under section 661 of the Income tax Act a question covering both the branches of the section was also sought to be raised.
A bad and doubtful debt in respect of a business other than banking or money lending is allowable even if it is not in respect of loan  but a debt due in the course of the business of a money lending is not allowable unless it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of his business.
The Tribunal s order is very brief  it gives no reasons in support of the conclusions.
An accommodation advance is a neutral expression  it may be of the nature of a loan advanced in the ordinary course of business by a money lender it may be an advance the money lending or other business of the assessee but not in the nature of a loan or it may be wholly unrelated to the business of the tax payer.
The statement submitted by the Tribunal is also inadequate.
It contains only a summary of the business relations between.
the appellants and the Bombay firm a statement as to the amounts due at the end of each year at the foot of the account the interest if any charged and a summary of the orders made by the Income tax Officer the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Tribunal.
Counsel for the Revenue however contended that there are three important circumstances which appear from the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Income tax Officer from which it may be inferred that the advances made by the appellants to the Bombay firm were not in respect of loans in the ordinary course of the business of the appellants nor in respect of their other business.
Counsel said that 1 Sobhagchand Amarchand partner of the Bombay firm is the father of Seshmal one of the partners of the appellants and of the minors Ramniklal and Lakshmichand who are admitted to the benefits of partnership 2 that large amounts of money were advanced shortly before the Bombay firm closed its business and 3 that there was a consistant practice for paying or receiving interest on the 420 amounts due at the foot of the account but no interest was charged by the appellants in respect of the dues at the foot of the account at the end of Samvat Years 2007 and 2008.
But the Tribunal has not raised any inference from these circumstances and has merely observed that charging of interest cannot make it a money lending account.
It accordingly .
