R B Datar for the Appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD CJ.
It will be easier with the help of the following pedigree to understand the point involved in this appeal Khandappa Sangappa Magdum Hirabai Plaintiff Gurupad Biyawwa Bhagirathibai Dhundubai Shivapad Deft 1 Deft 3 Deft.
If a partition were to take place during Khandappa s lifetime between himself and his two sons the plaintiff would have got 14th share in the joint family properties the other three getting 14th share each.
Khandappa s 14th share would devolve upon his death on six sharers the plaintiff and her five children each having a 124th share therein.
Adding 14th and 124th the plaintiff claims a 724th share in the joint family properties.
That in short is the plaintiffs case.
That in short is the case of defendant 1.
Upon that finding the plaintiff.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
Since the view of the High.
LR351.
Explanation 2.
The son daughter and a widow are mentioned as heirs in class I of the Schedule and therefore by reason of the provisions of section 8a read with the 1st clause of section 9 they take simultaneously and to the exclusion of other heirs.
Thus whatever be the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property since there are six sharers in that property each having an equal share the plaintiff s share therein will be 16th.
Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fiction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mistakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death.
Though the plaintiff not being a coparcener was not entitled to demand partition yet if a partition were to take place between her husband and his two sons she would be entitled to receive a share equal to that of a son.
see Mulla s Hindu Law Fourteenth Edition page 403 para 315.
In a partition between Khandappa and his two sons there would be four sharers in the coparcenary property the fourth being Khandappa s wife the plaintiff.
Khandappa would have therefore got a 14th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and his sons Two things are thus clears  One that in a partition of the coparcenary property Khandappa would have obtained a 14th share and 767 two that the share of the plaintiff in the 14th share is 16th that is to say 124th.
So far there is no difficulty.
The question which poses a somewhat difficult problem is whether the plaintiff s share in the coparcenary property is only 124th or whether it is 14th plus 124th that is to say 724th.
The learned trial Judge relying upon the decision in Shiramabai which was later overruled by the Bombay High Court accepted the former contention while the High Court accepted the latter.
The question is which of these two views is to be preferred.
We see no justification for limiting the plaintiff s share to 124th by ignoring the 14th share which she would have obtained had there been a partition during her husband s life time between him and his two sons.
We think that in overlooking that 14th share one unwittingly permits one s imagination to boggle under the oppression of the reality that there was in fact no partition between the plaintiff s husband and his sons.
Whether a partition had actually taken place between the plaintiff s husband and his sons is beside the point for the purposes of Explanation 1.
For by doing that alone can one determine the extent of the claimant s share.
The allotment of this share is not a processual step devised merely for the purpose of working out some other conclusion.
