M R Parpia J B Dadachanji and section N Andley for the appellant.
M C Setalvad Attorney General for India B Sen and R H Dhebar for the respondent.
April 24.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by JAGANNADHADAS J.
This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Bombay dismissing an application made to it under article 226 of the Constitution.
These proceedings relate to the validity of an order of detention passed by the Government of Bombay on the 8th June 1955 against the appellant before us who is an Advocate of the High Court of Bombay having a standing of about thirty years.
It appears that he was also interested in journalism and in public affairs.
On his own showing he was concerned over the political future of Goa and was opposed to any attempts at intimidation of Indian residents of Goan origin by other political groups and has freely expressed these views in his journalistic articles.
O R D E R.
Whereas the Government of Bombay is satisfied with respect to the person known as Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay that with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the relations of India with the Portuguese Government and to the Security of India it is necessary to make the following Order Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub clause 1 of clause a of sub section 1 of section 3 of the Act IV of 1950 the Government of Bombay is pleased to direct that Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay be detained.
By Order and in the name of the Governor of Bombay.
Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay.
Political and Services Department.
In pursuance of section 7 of the Act IV of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act the grounds of detention also dated the 8th June 1955 was served on him along with the order of detention.
The validity of the order is challenged on the following contentions.
2The detaining authorityin exercising its power failed to apply its mind to the existence or otherwise of the legitimate objects of detention.
385 4The claim of State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest is unsustainable and in any case mala fide.
It is therefore enough to state in its broad outlines the background which is alleged as follows 1a There was a sudden search by the police on the 24th August 1954 at the appellant s place for alleged possession of illicit liquorwhich in fact was not found.
But under the guise thereof the police seized and carried away a mass of documents papers and printed material of the appellant as also a typewriter belonging to him.
cImmediately following the searches the appellant was taken into illegal police custody and interrogated and physically assaulted and threatened.
The State itself could not support the said highhandedness.
2 When one Joaquim Carlos a Portuguese soldier 386 attached to Goan forces was arrested on a charge of entering Indian territory without the requisite authority the appellant rendered professional assistance to him and obtained an order of release on bail from the Chief Presidency Magistrate Bombay which was foiled by the police by removing him away to Sawantwadi before the requisite sureties could be obtained at Bombay.
In respect of these two incidents private complaints had been filed by or on behalf of the affected persons.
In this context it is relevant 1  184.
The fact that be bad made no such application for particulars is therefore a circumstance which may well be taken into consideration in deciding whether the grounds can be considered to be vague.
