A K Sen and G L Sanghi Vineet Kumar and Devinder Gupta for the Appellant.
578 DD Thakur SN Kacker and RP Bhatt for respondent in 261181.
J Sorabjee K K Venugopal and R P Bhatt for respondent in 2611 A81.
Altaf Ahmad and Irfan Ahmad for respondent No 2.
section Ghosh and A K Nag for the intervener.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BALAKRISHNA ERADI J.
No order as to costs of hearing in this Court.
The legal consequence of this order will take effect from November 16 1982.
Reasons will follow.
 We now proceed to state in this judgment the reasons in support of our aforesaid conclusion 579 In July 1966 the appellant Ved Gupta decided to embark upon a venture to construct and operate an air conditioned Cinema in a plot of land which he proposed to take on lease in Gandhi Nagar Jammu in Collaboration with two osher persons namely Todar Mal and Kishan Kumar.
Accordingly on July 22 1966 Ved Gupta purporting to act on behalf of a partnership consisting of himself and the two persons aforementioned as a matter of fact no partnership had been constituted at all by that date applied to the District Magistrate Jammu under section 3 of the Jammu and Kashmir Cinematograph Act 1989 1933 AD herein after referred to as the Act for permission to construct a modern Cinema Hall at the proposed site a detailed description of which was furnished in the plan annexed to the application.
Shri Ved Gupta was informed by the District Magistrate Jammu by his Memo Annexure B that the Government had approved the construction of a Cinema Hall at the proposed site and had granted the requisite permission in his favour as per letter dated September 11 1967 issued by the Secretary to Government General Department.
From Annexure B it would appear that the permission so granted was in favour of Ved Ved Gupta in his individual capacity and not as the representative of any firm.
In the meantime by a deed dated December 7 1966 which was registered on December 24 1966 the plot in question was taken on lease jointly by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar for a period of 40 years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
Thereafter under a deed dated July 15 1969 the aforesaid three persons entered into a partnership along with 11 others under the name and style Metro Theatres for carrying on the business of constructing and running a modern air conditioned Cinema in the site covered by the permission granted by the Government.
By a subsequent agreement executed by the 14 partners on February 22 1969 the name of the Cinema business was changed from Metro Theatre  to Apsara Theatre.
A Schedule of conditions imposing various duties and obligations on the licensee is also appended to the said licence.
Subsequently on January 26 1976 Krishan Kumar addressed a communication to the District Magistrate stating that he had not actually signed the notice sent on December 3 1975 that Todar Mal had unauthorisedly purported to send the notice on his behalf also without his knowledge or consent and the said notice may therefore be treated as fictitious.
A copy 581 of the said letter was sent by Krishan Kumar to Ved Gupta also.
Krishan Kumar was a party respondent in the Special Leave Petition also.
On April 19 1979.
It reads Whereas it has been brought to my notice by Shri Ved Gupta sole licensee Apsara Theatre that the District and Sessions Judge Jammu has issued a temporary injunction against the exhibition of films by him in the above said Theatre And whereas the SP City by his letter No 1Conf.
16980 has intimated that there was exhibition of films on 25th September 1980 in Apsara Theatre by persons other than the licensee And whereas under the provisions of the Cinematograph Act read with rules none other than licensee is permitted to exhibit films during the currency of the licence without permission of the licensing authority Now therefore I A Sahasranaman District Magistrate Jammu hereby order that exhibition of films in Apsara Theatre will remain suspended till further orders.
This order shall come into force with immediate effect.
That appeal was heard by a Division 19 Bench consisting of Mufti Baha ud din Farooqi Acting Chief Justice and Mir J.
The two learned Judges comprising the Division Bench however came to divergent conclusions.
It was further held by The Acting Chief Justice that the effect of the licence was that it renders privilege the building of the cinematographs used therein and the privilege must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
Consequently it became impossible for the Letters Patent Appeal being heard by a third Judge designated by the Chief Justice as contemplated by Rule 23 2.
The learned Judges took the view that Rule 23 of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court Rules 1975 squarely covered the situation that had arisen before them.
Rule 23 is in the following terms 23 1 In the event of a difference of opinion among the judges composing any bench of the court the decision shall be in accordance with the opinion of the majority of the Judges.
3 If there is no such majority then the decision shall be in accordance with the decision of the senior Judge except in the case of an appeal from a decree where such decree shall be confirmed 586 In the opinion of the Division Bench the present case was governed by sub rule 3 of Rule 23 and consequently the decision in the case had to be in accordance with the opinion of the senior Judge.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
Although we entertain very serious doubts about the correctness of the view taken by the Division Bench of the High Court regarding the applicability of Rule 23 3 to the instant case we do not feel called upon to examine the said question in depth or to pronounce upon it in this case in view of the conclusion arrived at by us on the merits of the case that the conclusions recorded by the Acting Chief Justice on the points that arose for decision in the Letters Patent Appeal cannot be legally sustained and that there was no justification for interference by the Division Bench with the judgment of the learned Single Judge dismissing the writ petition.
The District Magistrate and the State Government whose orders were sought to be quashed were the main respondents in this writ petition.
That writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on May 9 1978 SLP Civil No 3490 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal against the High Court s order dismissing his writ petition was rejected by this Court on November 13 1978.
It is sufficient to state that these reasons do not appeal to us as correct or tenable.
An examination of the relevant provisions of the Act and the Rules shows beyond doubt that they contemplate the grant of a licence to a person in respect of a place where cinematographic apparatus have been 589 installed.
The analogy drawn by The learned Acting Chief Justice with licence in the realm of real property law is a meaningless exercise for the licence granted under the Act is almost in all respects a completely different concept.
In this connection it is relevant to refer to Rule 88v.
That Rule reads 88v.
HLC Appeal allowed.
