Civil Appeals Nos.
1264 6771 etc.
From the Judgment and Order dated 261269 of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad in WP Nos 3956 3971 3983 3899 4421 4474 4537 4544 4570 4825 and 493368.
DK Sen Gopal Subramonium and RN Poddar for the Appellant.
Ex parte for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by TULZAPURKAR J.
In these 11 appeals only that part of the judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court is assailed by the Union of India where the challenge to the validity of section 28 of the Gold Control Act 1968 has succeeded.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus 28.
Money lending business not to be carried on in licensed premises No licensed dealer shall unless authorised by the Administrator so to do a carry on business as a money lender or banker on the security of any article or ornament or both b permit any other person to carry on money lending banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
No rules have been framed prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the Administrator could refuse permission or grant permission.
It cannot be disputed that sec.
It is also clear that the restrictions which have been imposed in sec.
Therefore in our view the objective the policy and the Scheme of the Act together with the necessity to ensure prevention of circumvention of the other provisions of the Act afford more than sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising the power of discretion conferred on him under sec.
In fact sec.
51 of the Act requires that the Administrator should have regard to the policy and purposes of the Act in making his orders.
Moreover against his order under that section a revision lies to Central Government which implies that he will have to make judicious use of his power or discretion and any improper exercise is liable to be corrected by a higher authority.
If that be so it cannot be said that unfettered or uncanalised or arbitrary power has been conferred upon the Administration under sec.
Moreover regard must be had to be the nature of the restrictions imposed by the Section.
It does not impose any blanket or 956 absolute prohibition upon a dealer from carrying on money lending banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carries on business as a dealer but he is prevented only from carrying on business as money lender or banker on the security of any article ornament or both unless authorised by the administrator.
Having regard to this position which obtains in the case sec.
214 Guj.
LR 112 957 suitability of the applicant  in cl.
SR Appeal allowed.
