From the.
Judgment and Order dated 611971 of the Allahabad High Court in Wealth Tax Reference No 285 of 1965 124 SC Manchanda and Ms A Subhashini for the Appellant.
Respondent in person.
Not present  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
The questions involved before the Allahabad High Court in the reference under section 271 of the Act were as follows 1 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs 150000 on 11.
The asses see Dr RS Gupta had maintained an account in the books of Messrs Tika Ram and Sons Pvt.
On that day the assessee had addressed a letter to the Company stating that he had decided to gift away for love and affection various sums to the following persons 125 Ved Prakash Gupta .
Rs25000 Om Prakash Gupta .
Rs25000 Hari Prakash Gupta .
Rs50000 Pravin Kumar Gupta .
It appears further that copies of this letter were sent to one Om Prakash Gupta and Ved Prakash Gupta.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee his father for the gift of Rs25000 made to him and Rs50000 gifted to his son.
It must be mentioned however that the company ie Messrs Tika Ram and Sons.
Ltd was stated to be running an oil mill and carrying on business as grain tillers.
contractors and brick kiln owners.
It was also stated to be carrying on business of advancing money and taking money on loan when necessary.
The respective donees were stated to have later on withdrawn amounts from the amounts so transferred to their accounts.
The Tribunal held that they were not carrying on banking business.
Such delivery may be made in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
34 and 5 were answered in the negative.
This question has been examined by the various High Courts.
The circumstances must be such as to make it clear that there were sufficient funds at the disposal of the donor by reason of which he could make the gift by such book entries.
The firm in which the donor may have account may or may not have sufficient cash balance but it must have sufficient provision for overdraft with the bank on the basis it could honour in structions given by the assessee.
held that under section 123 of the  in case of gift of movable property the transfer may be effected by delivery.
Such delivery may be in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
In that case it was found that the effect of the transaction in that case was to put the amounts in the possession of the assessee who was authorised to hold the amounts on behalf of the donees which resulted in a delivery of the amounts within the meaning of the Sale of Goods Act.
It may be noted that in EMV Muthappa Chettiar vs Commission er of Income Tax Madras the Madras High Court held that mere entries were not enough to constitute valid gifts particularly when gift of fund continued to be used in the donors  business.
The principal amounts credited were shown as deposits in the balance sheets of the busi ness for some years and were thereafter referred to as unsecured loans.
There was no evidence that gifts were accepted on behalf of minors.
It was held that the gift was not valid.
No acceptance was produced.
It was  held that there was no valid gift.
