it case for initiating any procee d ings for contempt against the respondents.
109F  ORIGINAL JURISDICTION Writ Petition Civil No 530 of 1983 etc.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
VA Bobde Shyam Mudaliar VM Tarkunde GL Sangh i AK Sanghi Mrs R Karanjawala Mrs Meenakshi Karanjawa la NM Popli and VJ Francis for the Petitioners.
Ms A Subhashini DN Dwivedi Girish Chandra CV section Rao MC Dhingra and NK Sharma for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by OJHA J.
The petitioners in the aforementioned wr it petitions claim to have been appointed as Supervisors Gra de A  in various ordnance factories between 1962 to 1966 a nd have filed these writ petitions with the prayer that t he same relief may be granted to them also as was granted by this Court to 75 appellants in Civil Appeal No 441 of 19 81 vide its order dated 2nd February 1981.
T he exact nature of the prayer made in these miscellaneo us applications shall be indicated after referring to t he relief granted on 2nd February 1981 in Civil Appeal No 4 41 of 1981.
Kindly acknowledge receipt.
Sd KG Bijlani ADGOFEst.
The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
The writ petition w as contested by the respondents thereto inter alia on t he ground that under the rules of promotion from Supervisor  A  to Chargeman II first Departmental Promotion Committee at the factory level and then a Departmental Committee at t he Central level screens the service record of each of t he Supervisors A  who comes within the range of eligibili ty and then finally the Director General of Ordnance Factori es draws up a list and sanctions promotions.
It appears th at the criterion of promotion is seniority cum merit.
They howeve r did not find any substance in the submission made on beha lf of the appellants and accordingly dismissed the speci al appeal on 8th February 1977.
Accordi ng to the learned Judges such a view would militate again st Rule 12 of the Rules mentioned above.
With regard to the plea based on Artic le 16 of the Constitution.
This was an argument neither pleaded as a ground for the petition nor was raised before the learn ed Single Judge.
It reads Heard counsel.
Special leave granted.
We see no justific a tion for any such differential treatment being given to t he appellants.
We are not suggesti ng that the appellants are entitled to be promoted to t he aforesaid posts even if they are found unfit to be promote d.
If the appellants are promote d they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
This order will dispose of the appeal.
There will be no order as to costs.
Now we shall rev rt to the exact prayers made in the three miscellaneous pet i tions aforesaid.
The prayer made in Civil Miscellaneo us Petition No 3325 of 1987 is for the issue of an inter im order restraining the respondents from making any furth er promotions during the pendency and final heating of t he miscellaneous petition and for initiating contempt procee d ings.
Almost analogous prayer had been made in Miscellaneo us Petition No 9357 of 1983 also namely that the responden ts may be restrained from promoting officers to the next high er posts on the basis of recommendations of certain Departme n tal Promotion Committees without complying with the dire c tions of this Court in its order dated 2nd February 198 1.
The reliefs prayed for in the above two civil miscellaneo us petitions are thus of an interim nature.
 The aforesaid writ petitions came up for hearing befo re a bench of two learned Judges of this Court on 9th Septe m ber 1987.
 It is in view of this order that these matters have been listed before us.
It was also brought to our notice that similar ly placed 125 employees got the benefit of the circular dat ed 6th November 1962 in pursuance of an order passed by t he Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April 1983 in writ pet i tions filed by them.
It was urged that in case the sa me relief is not granted to the petitioners they are likely to become juniors to some of the appellants in Civil Appeal N o 441 of 1981 and the petitioners in the writ petitions deci d ed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April 1983.
For the respondents on the other hand it was urged th at service conditions including promotion of employees inclu d ing Supervisors A  in the Indian Ordnance Factories we re governed by the Rules and in view of Rule 12 no appointme nt to the various posts to which the Rules applied could be made otherwise than as specified therein According to learned counsel since Rule 8 of the Rules contemplated th at appointments by promotion were to be made on the basis of selection list prepared in the manner provided therei n there was no scope for automatic promotion merely aft er expiry of 2 years of continuous service on the basis of t he circular dated 6th November 1962.
According to learn ed counsel the Rules did not prescribe the minimum number of years of service as Supervisors A  which would make th em eligible for promotion as Chargeman II and the circul ar dated 6th November 1962 which was in the nature of an executive instruction prescribed 2 years  service as Supe r visor A  to make him eligible for promotion.
Howeve r merely on completion of two years  service a Supervisor  A  could not claim automatic promotion.
On the other han d promotion depended inter alia on availability of posts a nd the incumbent being found fit by the Departmental Promoti on Committee for being included in the selection list.
It w as only such a Supervisor Grade A  whose name found place in the selection list who could be promoted to the post of Chargeman II as and when vacancies were available.
It w as further urged that the petitioners of these writ petitio ns were on the basis of the Rules considered for promotion a nd it is not disputed that all of them have in due course be en promoted as Chargeman II and some of them have even be en promoted to higher posts.
Our attention was further invit ed by learned counsel for the respondents to an order commun i cated among others to the Director 102 General of Ordnance Factories vide letter dated 28th Dece m ber 1965 of the Government of India Ministry of Defenc e saying inter alia that a minimum period of service of thr ee years in the lower grade should be fixed for promotion to the next higher grade.
It was pointed out that this had be en found necessary not only because it would be in conformi ty with the practice obtaining in other Ministries but al so because on merits this period is necessary to judge t he performance in the lower post and the potentialities f or promotion to a higher post.
He also brought to our notice a subsequent circular dated 20th January 1966 by the Direct or General of Ordnance Factories who had issued.
the earli er circular dated 6th November 1962 which provides Sub NG Establishment Treatment of Diplo ma Holders and ex apprentices serving as Supr.
or in equivalent grades in the matter of promotion.
Ref This office confidential No 673ANG dt.
62 and 4416ANG dt.
29665.
The question of promotion of Diploma holders in MechElec.
Engineering and Ex apprentices serving as Sup r A  Gr.
or in equivalent grades has received further consi d eration of the DGOF who has decided that in futu re promotions of all such individuals will be effected in accordance with the normal rules ie on the basis of the ir listing by the relevant DPC and not merely on completi on of 2 years satisfactory continuous service as Supr.
or equivalent grades.
Relying on two earlier decisions in B N Nagarajan  Ors.
vs State of Mysore  Ors 82 and Sant Ram Sharma vs State of Rajasthan  Anr.
  it was held by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Ramachandra Shankar Deodhar and Ors.
vs The State of Mah a rashtra  Ors  that in the absence of legislative Rules it was competent to the State Governme nt to take a 103 decision in the exercise of its executive power under Art i cle 162 of the Constitution.
vs Sh.
If there is a conflict between the executive instructions and the rul es made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India the rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India prevail and if there is a co n flict between the rules made under the proviso to Artic le 309 of the Constitution of India and the law made by t he appropriate Legislature the law made by the appropria te Legislature prevails.
 It is thus apparent that an executive instruction cou ld make a provision only with regard to a matter which was n ot covered by the Rules and that such executive instructi on could not override any provision of the Rule.
Since Rule 8 in t he instant case prescribed a procedure for making promotion t he said procedure could not be abrogated by the executi ve instruction dated 6th November 1962.
This circular had indeed the effect of accelerating t he chance of promotion.
The right to promotion on the oth er hand was to be governed by the Rules.
This right was co n ferred by Rule 7 which inter alia provides that subject to the exception contained in Rule 11 vacancies in the pos ts enumerated therein will normally be filled by promotion of employees in the grade immediately below in accordance wi th the provisions of Rule 8.
The requirements of rule 8 in brief have already been indicated above.
The effect of this change obviously was th at now only fifty per cent vacancis in the post of Depu ty Collector being available in place of all the vacancies it was to take almost double the time for many other allocat ed Tehsildars to get promoted as Deputy Collectors.
In oth er words it resulted in delayed chance of promotion.
It wa s inter alia urged on behalf of the petitioners that t he situation brought about by the rules of July 30 1959 co n stituted variation to their prejudice in the conditions of service applicable to them immediately prior to the reorga n isation of the State and the Rules were consequently i n valid.
It is now we ll settled by the decision of this Court in State of Mysore vs GB Purohit that though a right to be considered for prom o tion is a condition of service mere chances of promoti on are not.
A rule which merely affects chances of promoti on cannot be regarded as varying a condition of service.
In Purohit s case the districtwise seniority of sanitary in 105 spectors was changed to Statewise seniority and as a resu lt of this change the respondents went down in seniority a nd became very junior.
This it was urged affected the ir chances of promotion which were protected under the provi so to Section 115 sub section 7.
We see no force in this argument becau se chances of promotion are not conditions or service.
 It i s therefore clear that neither the Rules of July 30 195 9 nor the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector divisionwise varies the conditions of service of the petitioners to their disadvantage.
 The same view was reiterated in Mohammad Shujat Ali a nd Ors.
vs Union of India  Ors.
  In the bri ef written submission filed on behalf of the petitioners in Writ Petition Nos.
This circumstance by itself is sufficient to indicate that when Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 was heard by this Court either the subsequent ord er dated 28th December 1965 as well as the circular dated 20 th January 1966 and the legal consequences flowing therefr om were not brought to the notice of the learned Judges by t he learned counsel for the respondents or the same was n ot properly emphasised the judgment dated 2nd February 19 81 being completely silent on the point and the appeal w as allowed only on the ground that some Supervisors having be en promoted as Chargeman II on expiry of 2 years of the ir service in view of the circular dated 6th November 1962 t he non promotion of the appellants was discriminatory being in violation of Article 16.
At this place it will be usef ul to refer to an affidavit dated 19th November 1983 of D P Gupta who is one of the appellants in Civil Appeal No 4 41 of 1981 filed in CMP Nos.
9356 57 of 1983.
In view of.
They apparently did not fall in t he same category.
