ivil Appeal Nos.
K Parasaran Attorney General AK Ganguli and P Parmeshwaran for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
The appellant is a division of McDowell  Co Ltd It has its factory at inter alia Visakhapatnam.
There it manufactures and sells fusel oilStyrene Monomer falling under Tariff Item No 68 of the Ist Schedule to the Act.
The case of the appellant is that the said fusel oil is a com pletely manufactured article and after completion of its manufacture it is stored in storage tanks duly approved for this purpose.
It is at this stage that the quantity of fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufactured according to the appel lant is entered in the RG 1 Register maintained for goods manufactured by the appellant.
It is also the case of the appellant that the said fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufac tured by it is sold in bulk and delivered to the customers at the appellant s factory.
The fusel oilStyrene Monomer is also capable of being supplied in road tankers to customers.
The appellant had filed its price lists in respect of the same.
In the said price lists which were duly approved by the Asstt.
Collector the appellant had shown the value of fusel oilStyrene Monomer at the rate at which those were sold in wholesale as naked Ex Works and in bulk.
According to the appellant the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oilStyrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
On 2nd July 1983 a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
Another show cause notice as to why value of the drums should not be included in the assessable value of the goods was issued to the appellant on the 5th April 1983 pertaining to Gate Pass No 773 whereunder the appellant had cleared 24 KI of fusel oil in drums supplied by the buyer.
Replies were duly filed to the said show cause notices by the appellant contending inter alia that as the drums were supplied by the buyer value thereof could not be included in the assessable value.
On the 11th August 1983 two orders were passed by the Assist ant Collector one in relation to each of the aforesaid show cause notices.
The Assistant Collector included the value of the drums in the assessable value of the said fusel oilStyrene Monomer.
There was a further appeal to the Tribunal.
Collector.
The Asstt.
3 SCR 123.
Explanation.
In that decision it has been recognized that the measure employed for assessing a tax must not be confused with the nature of the tax while the measure of the tax may be assessed by its own standard to serve as a standard for assessing the levy the Legislature need not contonour it along lines which spell out the character of the levy it self.
365 367 of the Report.
These were in the storage tanks of the assessee and were as such marketable.
