ivil Appeal No 4649 of 1989.
From the Judgment and Order dated 2671988 of the Allahabad High Court in Review Application No 27W of 1988.
Anil Dev Singh and Mrs section Dikshit for the Appellants.
Yogeshwar Prasad Vijay Hansaria Sunil K Jain SK Jain for the Respondents.
The Respondent Arun Govil had been granted a permanent commission in the Indian Air Force and was working as a Pilot Officer.
In the year 1972 he was declared unfit by a Medical Board and was therefore inval idated from IAF The Government of India issued a scheme for the benefit of ex military officials.
The State of Uttar Pradesh also adopted the same scheme.
Under that scheme the ex military officials were appointed on Contract basis for a fixed term which could be extended from time to time subject to the suitability of the official concerned but not beyond 58 years of age.
Pursuant to the said scheme the State of Uttar Pradesh appointed the respondent as the Secretary Zila Sainik Board Unnao on 20th of August 1979.
the date of assumption if it is not terminated earlier by giving a one month s notice by the Hon ble Gover nor or on paying one month s salary in lieu thereof or by giving one month s notice by the Officer.
 The respondent was required to furnish his acceptance of the terms and conditions contained in the said order includ ing the above term relating to the period of appointment and on his accepting the terms and conditions he was appointed as the Secretary in the District Soldiers Board in the district of Unnao in the State of Uttar Pradesh .
Again the term was extended upto 30th of August 1985 by an order dated 1st June 1983.
All these orders of exten sion were couched almost in the same language.
ADM141 Dated 3131982 on the above subject I am directed to say that the terms of the officers mentioned under para 2 who were appointed wef.
the date mentioned in para 4 has expired.
The Governor is therefore pleased to accord his sanction to extend the period of the contract upto the period mentioned under para 5 subject to the condi tion that their service tenure shall expire on completion of 58 years of age in case the same is completing earlier during the extended period.
No Name and Date of Date of Recommen place of appoint expiry dation appoint ment of con extend ment tract the contract 1to 12 13 Ex Pilot 21879 31383 1483 Arun Govil 30885 Unnao 14 to 21 242 2.
During the extended period of the contract conditions of service of officers shall remain same as are mentioned under their Appointment Order.
Letters of accept ance of relevant conditions of service to be obtained from these officers must be submitted to the Government at an early date.
 It is thus seen that the appointment of the respondent was indisputably in the nature of contract and under the last order of appointment refened to above he was entitled to continue in office in the post in question till 30th of August 1985 and not beyond that date unless there was a further extension.
But on 2931985 the service of the 1st Respondent was terminated by the issue of a notice and payment of one month s salary.
The order was to be effective from the date of receipt of termination order and no charges were men tioned therein against the 1st respondent.
The respondent aggrieved by the said order of termina tion filed a Writ Petition on the file of the High Court of Allahabad in Writ Petition No 3 164 of 1985.
A Division Bench of the High Court found that the order of termination that had been served on the respondent was an invalid one since it had been issued on the basis of Vigilance Report and no opportunity had been given to the respondent to show cause why such action should not be taken against him.
It is not necessary to set out all the reasons given by the High Court for setting aside the order of termination.
The High Court further issued a direction to the effect that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service.
In the instant case the respondent was entitled to be in service till 30th of Au guSt 1985 unless there was a further extention.
In the Penultimate paragraph of the judgment the High Court further stated It is open for the opposite parties to con sider the claim of the petitioner for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court.
 The judgment was delivered on 2431988.
 The contention of the respondent was that the said interim order entitled him to be reinstated in service irrespective of the fact whether the Governor had extended the period of his appointment beyond 30th of August 1985.
The High Court allowed the Review PetitiOn on 2671988 and made an order reinstating the Respondent in service which reads as follows This is an application for review of our Judgment dated 2431988 by which we allowed the Writ Petition filed by the Petitioner with certain directions.
It seems that when the writ petition was decided our attention was not drawn towards the interim order dated 1071986 passed by learned single Judge in which it was provided that one post will be kept vacant and in case the petitioner suc ceeds in his petition it would be made avail able forthwith to the petitioner by way of his appointment.
The petitioner has pointed out inaccuracy in the second paragraph of the operative part of the judgment which says that It is open for the opposite parties to consider the claim of the petitioner for continuation in service or of fresh appoint ment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court Aggrieved by the above order made on review which di rected the State of Uttar Pradesh the appellant herein to reinstate the respondent in service the State Government has filed this apeal by special leave.
The appellant government never accepted the position that the respondent was entitled to be treated as a regular employee who had a vested right to continue to hold the post till he attained 58 years of age.
No costs.
