KN Rajagopala Sastri R H Dhebar and D Gupta for the appellant.
February 23.
But this question was not answered by the High Court which confined itself to answering the first question which was common to both the appeals.
The appellant before us in both the appeals is the Commissioner of Income tax and the respondents are the two assessees in one case a Bank and the other a private limited company.
In C A No 25958 the assessee is a public limited company incorporated in the State of Cochin with branches in that State as well as in what was British India and in Travancore State.
In C A 26058 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
The Appellate Tribunal also did not accept the submissions of the assessee and upheld the order of assessment.
The question for decision is as to how this proviso is to be construed.
Ordinarily the effect of an excepting or a qualifying proviso is to carve something out of the preceding enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be in it and such a proviso cannot be construed as enlarging the scope of an enactment when it can be fairly and properly construed without attributing to it that effect.
It was argued on behalf of the Revenue that this 1  37.
2  258.
Now we come to section 241.
This section was introduced in 1922 before which under the Indian Act of 1918 a loss under one head of income could not be set off against income under another head the taxability of income arising from each head being separate.
By the addition of this section the loss under one head of profits or gains was allowed to be set off against income profits and gains under any other bead in any assessment year.
Section 241 became the subject matter of controversy in the courts.
The Privy Council in Arunachalam Chettiar vs Commissioner of Income tax1 held that this section was meant for a set off of profits arising under different heads and not where profits and losses had to be adjusted if they arose under the same head.
Sir George Rankin said at p 241  In their Lordships  opinion whether a firm is registered or unregistered partnership does not obstruct or defeat the right of a partner to an adjustment on account of his share of loss in the firm whether the set off be against other profits under the same 1 1936 LR 63 IA 233 265 head of income within the meaning of section 6 of the Act or under a different head in which case only need recourse be had to section 24 sub section 1 .
Thus the Privy Council emphasised that the object of section 241 was to allow a set off of profits against losses arising under different heads and Only in such cases could recourse be had to section 241.
In cases where profits and losses arose under the same head they had to be adjusted against each other.
34 266 determining profits and gains of the business of any resident.
The proper function of a proviso is that it qualifies the generality of the main enactment by providing an exception and taking out as it were from the main enactment a portion which but for the proviso would fall within the main enactment.
3 1944 LR 71 IA 113 122.
