Subhash Mallick and SK Jain for the Appellant.
BD Sharma for the Respondents.
These writ petitions were decided by the aforesaid common judgment.
The first writ petition was filed by the father Raghubir Singh whereas the second writ petition was filed by his minor son Surendrapal Singh through his next friend Shri Jagjit Singh maternal grand father of the minor.
The relief claimed in both the petitions before the High Court was the same namely for setting aside of the order dated 6th August 1977 passed by the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan Ajmer.
It was thus held that Raghubir Singh and his son Surendrapal Singh are entitled to retain 124 Bighas and 16 Biswas only and the surplus land measuring 4 Bighas and 6 Biswas may be resumed.
Dissatisfied with the order of the Revenue Appellate Authority Raghubir Singh filed a revision application under Section 230 of the Act of 1955 before the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan.
The Board went on to hold that there is no provision for separate units in Chapter III B of the Act of 1955.
Before the Division Bench of the High Court in the writ petitions it was urged on behalf of Raghubir Singh that no appeal having been filed by the State from the order the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May 1976 the said order became final and the Board of Revenue had no jurisdiction to set aside that part of the Sub Divisional Officer s order which had gone against the State and in his favour.
It was submitted that the power of general superintendence and control over all revenue courts vested in the Board could not be exercised to the detriment of the 726 writ petitioners much less by way of suo motu exercise of powers.
Mr Subhagh Mal Jain learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant submitted that the State having not filed an appeal under section 225 of the Act of 1955 and or revision under Section 230 of the Act of 1955 the Board of the Revenue could not while hearing the revision petition filed by Raghubir Singh set aside the orders of Sub Divisional Officer and the revenue appellate authority under Section 221 of the Act of 1955.
The general superintendence and control over all revenue courts shall be vested in an all such Courts shall be subordinate to the Board and subject to such superintendence control and subordination a x x x omitted b all Additional Collectors Sub.
 The contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that the section confers executive powers of superintendence and control on the Board and it does not vest any power of superintendence on the Board on judicial side.
The Division 727 Bench in that case was concerned with the interpretation of Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act.
Section 9 whereof provides as under 9 Subject to the other provisions of this Act the general superintendence and control over all revenue courts and over all revenue officers shall be vested in and all such Courts and Officers shall be subordinate to the Board.
This case has no application for interpretation of the present Section 221 of the Act of 1955.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is not subject to the other provisions of the Act.
Board of Revenue.
Rajasthan ILR where the High Court had to construe the power of the Board of Revenue Rajasthan conferred on it by the Rajasthan Board of Revenue Ordinance NOXXII of 1949.
There also there was similar provision like Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act and it was held that Section 12 of the said Ordinance must be held to give powers to the Board to revise judicial orders also passed by courts in appropriate cases.
At the same time the power is there and it may be exercised sparingly in extraordinary case where interest of justice requires that the Board should exercise the power.
Under Section 107 of the Government of India Act 1955 there was provision of superintendence by High Court in these terms  728 Each of the High Courts has superintendence over all the courts for the time being subject to its appellate jurisdiction.
The appeal consequently fails and is dismissed with costs.
U R Appeal dismissed.
