March 15.
These fourteen allottees preferred an application for review of the order cancelling their allotment on the ground that this cancellation was a result of misapprehension of the actual facts and that they were not entitled to allotment of suburban lands at all.
and allotment of which had been cancelled earlier.
On January 6 1955 the appellants moved the Deputy Custodian General for calling up their review application and for revising the order of October 31 1952 passed by the Additional Custodian cancelling the allotment of Raikot lands which had originally been made in their favour in the year 1949.
By the order dated November 8 1957 the Deputy Custodian General dismissed the appellants  application.
What is urged by Mr Khanna on behalf of the Custodian General is that this is the effect of the provisions of sections 122 and 19 of the Act.
333 provides that on the publication of the notification under sub section 1 the right title or interest of any evacuee in the property specified in the notification shall immediately stand extinguished and that property shall vest absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances.
Sub section.
Under section 161 of this Act the Central Government is empowered to take such measures as it considers necessary or expedient for the custody management and disposal of the compensation pool.
Sub section.
This provision thus confers the power to deal with evacuee property acquired under the Act only on a managing officer appointed or managing corporation constituted under the Act and makes no mention whatsoever of the Custodian appointed under the .
Therefore they must prevail over the provisions of B 10 of the .
It is true that there is nothing on record to show that a managing officer was appointed with respect to the Raikot properties acquired under the notification dated March 24 1955.
But it is not necessary to ascertain that fact.
 It is followed by an explanation but that explanation has no bearing upon the point urged by Mr Achhruram.
It is no doubt true that the Raikot lands were allotted to the appellants under the notification referred to in el.
a of this section and therefore they would be entitled to the benefits conferred by this section provided they satisfied all the other requirements of this section express or implied.
It is implicit in this section that the displaced person to whom land was allotted held the land and was in possession of such property at the date of the notification.
That may or may not be so.
Mr Achhruram contended that r 74 of the Displaced Persons Compensation and Rehabilitation Rules 1955 stood in the way of the Custodian allotting the Raikot property to the respondents during the pendency of the proceedings before the Custodian General.
That rule reads as follows Allotments which are the subject matter of dispute.
No property in a rural area in respect of which any case is pending in a Civil Court or before a Deputy Custodian Custodian or Custodian General shall be transferred to the allottee.
There is therefore no substance in this argument.
Sub section.
1 provides that managing officers and managing corporations will perform such functions as may be assigned to them under the Act.
Sub section.
2 provides that subject to the provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder a managing officer or a managing corporation may among other things take such measures as he or it considers it necessary or expedient for the purpose of securing administering preserving managing or disposing of any property in the compensation pool entrusted to him or it etc.
The argument is that unless there is such entrustment the managing officer or managing corporation has no function to perform with respect to evacuee property.
Further there is no ground in the special leave petition or in the statement of the 43 338 case that there is no entrustment in fact of this property or this class of properties to a managing officer or managing corporation.
He cannot therefore be permitted to make out a new case at this stage of argument.
Again this provision is a general provision and the particular provision regarding cancellation of allotment is section 191 of the Act which does not refer to entrustment at all and it is this provision which must prevail over the general provision.
He then contends that the provisions of section 191 of the Act being subject to rules made under the Act must be read along with r 102 which deals with cancellation of allotments of leases.
That rule reads thus Cancellation of allotments and leases A managing officer or a managing corporation may sell any property in the compensation pool entrusted to him or to it cancel an allotment or terminate a lease or vary the terms of any such lease or allotment if the allottee or lessee as the case may be ahas sublet or parted with the possession of the whole or any part of the property allotted or leased to him without the permission of a competent authority or bhas used or is using such property for a purpose other than that for which it was allotted or leased to him without the permission of a competent authority or c has committed any act which is destructive of or permanently injurious to the property or d for any other sufficient reason to be recorded in writing Provided that no action shall be taken under this rule unless the allottee or the lessee as the case may be has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
d of r 102 permits the managing officer or managing corporation to cancel allotment for any other sufficient reason to be recorded in writing.
That is all.
In our opinion therefore this rule does not help the appellants.
Appeal dismissed.
