The learned Subordinate Judge held that the defendant had encroached upon the plaintiff  coal land that the suit was not barred by limitations and that they would be entitled to the reliefs prayed for.
Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the said boundary should be fixed solely with reference to the boundaries given in the lease of 1894 whereas learned counsel for the respondents contends that no plan has been annexed to the said lease and therefore the boundary could more satisfactorily and definitely be fixed with reference to the plans annexed to the subsequent lease deeds executed in favour of the successors in interest of the appellant and the respondents.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
The appellant denied the said allegation and stated that the respondents all along knew and had been aware that the portion of coal land in question belonged to and was the property of the appellant.
Though the High Court held that the burden of proof to establish knowledge on the part of the respondents beyond the prescribed time was on the appellant it has given the finding on the assumption that the initial burden was on the respondents to prove that they had knowledge of the said encroachment only within three years thereof.
It reads  Period Time from Description of suit.
of which period limitation begins to run.
 The article says that a suit for recovery of specific movable property acquired by conversion or for compensation for wrongful taking or detaining of the suit property should be filed within three years from the date when the person having the right to the possession of the property first learns in whose possession it is.
That apart section 3 of the Limitation Act makes it obligatory on a court to dismiss a suit barred by limitation although limitation has not been set up as a defence indicating thereby that it is the duty of a plaintiff to establish at any rate prima facie that the suit is within time.
Looking from a different perspective we arrive at the same result.
That burden is constant throughout the trial but the burden to prove in the sense of adducing evidence shifts from time to time having regard to the evidence adduced by one party or the other or the presumption of fact or law raised in favour of one or the other.
But the question is whether they have adduced evidence which had the effect of shifting the onus of proof to the appellant.
The evidence of this witness has been accepted by the learned Subordinate Judge and the High Court also accepted his evidence though in its view it was not very satisfactory.
There the suit was for conversion of property and the learned Judges applied article 48 of the Limitation Act to the said suit.
503 onus of proof may shift to the defendant.
 In Talyarkhan vs Gangadas 3 Rangnekar J formulated the legal position thus The onus is on the plaintiff to prove that he first learnt within three years of the suit that the property which he is seeking to recover was in the possession of the defendant.
Emphasis is also laid upon the fact that there was quarry system of working in the mines and a contention is advanced that quarrying is done openly and therefore the respondents must have had knowledge of the said fact.
The learned Subordinate Judge and the High Court refused to base any finding on mere probabilities without clear evidence to sustain them.
The High Court accepted the finding.
Nor can we hold in favour of the appellant on the basis of such a possibility.
The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.
