926 1960.
September 27.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
Ms.
The notice of demand for the total sales tax and the purchase tax assessed was served on the sellers on September 30 1956.
In this view the learned Judge dismissed the application under article 226.
Against this decision the sellers appealed.
The only question for our decision in the appeal by the Sales Tax Officer is whether property in the goods passed on shipment or at some point of time before shipment.
In certain circumstances eg if the seller takes the bill of  lading to his own order and parts with it to a third person the property in the goods it has been held does not pass to the buyer even on shipment.
The correctness of the proposition that in the absence of special agreement the property in the goods does not pass in the case of a FOB contract until the goods are actually put on board is not disputed before us.
The question whether there was such a different agreement has to be decided on a consideration of all the surrounding circumstances.
This in our opinion shows nothing.
We see however no justification for thinking that in this clause the time of the export  means the time 1 2 930 when the goods cross the customs frontier.
Section 8b provides for the deduction from the turnover of sale of goods to a dealer who holds an authorisation and furnishes to the selling dealer a certificate in the prescribed form declaring inter alia that the goods so sold to him are intended for being despatched by him or by registered dealers to whom he sells the goods to an address outside the State of Bombay.
It is urged that the use of the word it a person  instead of the words  a registered dealer  is deliberate and that it was the intention of the Legislature to levy purchase tax on a person who has given such certificate under section 8b only if the goods were not despatched outside the State of Bombay within the prescribed period by anybody.
It is therefore contended that  a person  in section 8b should be interpreted to include a registered dealer or anybody else.
If such despatch outside the State of Bombay is by a person to whom the certifying dealer has sold the goods but who is not a registered dealer the certificate has not been complied with.
Appeals dismissed.
