iminal Appeals Nos.
September 27.
As regards the fifth point it is sufficient to say that this Court has held that an appeal from acquittal need not be treated differently from an appeal from conviction and if the High Court finds that the acquittal is not justified by the evidence on record it can set aside the acquittal without coming to the conclusion that there were compelling reasons for doing so.
The mere fact of possession according to learned counsel does not suffice to show that the letters were secreted by the appellant.
To secrete means according to the dictionary to hide.
In connection with a postal article addressed to some person the fact that it is retained in his possession by an officer of the post office in an almirah and that too for an inordinately long period would be tantamount to hiding that 414 article.
Of course what act amounts to secreting would necessarily depend upon the facts of each case and in our opinion in a case like the present what has been established by the prosecution would sustain an inference of secreting.
Further a perusal of section 55 makes it clear that where the entrustment of an article is made an ingredient of an offence the legislature has used appropriate words to make the matter clear.
If therefore it was the intention of  the legislature that for an officer of the post office to be punished for secreting destroying or throwing away a postal article in the oucrse of transmission by post entrustment of that article to him was essential it would have used language similar to that used by it in section 55.
The object of the provision is to prevent postal articles in course of transmission by post  from being tampered with and so the secreting destruction  etc of postal articles to which the provision is directed is to such secreting destruction etc as would frustrate or tend to frustrate their delivery to the addressees.
It is probably for this reason that the definition clearly lays down that until an article despatched by post is delivered or can be said to be delivered that it will be deemed to be in course of transmission.
As regards the other point that is based on the fact that there were acknowledgments in respect of three letters in the post office we may point out that the existence of these acknowledgments would no more than raise a presumption that those articles were delivered to the addressees.
The next and in our opinion the most important question to be considered is whether the prosecution has established that the five registered letters in question were recovered from the possession of the appellant.
As already stated all that the prosecution has been able to prove is this case is that these letters were found in an almirah of the house in which the appellant lives jointly with his father and of which the key was furnished by the father.
2 that at least nine of those postal articles were addressed to the respondent himself vide exhibit Ka 9 serial No 66 3 that Dewan Singh who we are informed is a very old man would not foist the said incriminating articles on his son and thus ruin his career for ever and 4 that the respondent alone can be said to have had some motive for secreting and concealing the registered letters and other postal articles in question.
 Before the High Court could take into consideration the circumstance that as between himself and his father the appellant had a better opportunity to 417 get at postal articles it had to find affirmatively that the almirah was in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
We have not been able to discover anything in the judgment which directly bears on this question.
As the key was produced by the appellant s father and there is no evidence that it was ever with the appellant it would not be legitimate to infer that the almirah was even in the appellant s joint much less in his exclusive possession.
But to say that he must be deemed to be in exclusive possession of these articles and not merely in their joint possession along with his father because he had the opportunity to get at the articles and then infer that he must have utilized the opportunity and was therefore in their exclusive possession would be arguing in a circle.
Indeed had it been so found he could have been convicted under section 52 without the Court having to consider whether he had secreted the articles.
Therefore the contention that he had an opportunity to get at the articles loses all significance and can possibly have no bearing on the question as to the nature of possession attributable to the appellant.
No presumption can therefore be drawn against him that he had secreted them from the mere fact that they were found in the almirah which at best may be regarded as being in the joint possession of himself and his father.
Appeal allowed.
