March 24 1964.
It is the endeavour of industrial adjudication to prevent this.
That is why on questions of age of retirement and hours of work and other similar matters industrial tribunals attach much weight to what has been done in other industrial concerns in the neighbourhood in recent timeswhether by agreement or by adjudication.
The workmen claim that these showed clearly a tendency in the Bombay region to fix the age of retirement in comparable concerns at 60.
In Imperial Chemical Industries 427 India Private Ltd vs The Workmen1 where the Tribunal had raised the age of retirement from 55 to 58 and both parties appealed this Court pointed out that one of the documents on the record would conclusively show that in Bombay the age of retirement is almost invariably fixed at 60 and not at 55.
In an earlier decision of this Court in Dunzlop Rubber Co Ltd vs Workmen2 it had been urged that the employer was an All India concern and that changing the terms and conditions of service in regard to the age of retirement in one place might unsettle the uniformity and might have serious repercussions in other branches.
The Court then took into account the fact that the Tribunal had found that in all the awards in recent times in various concerns in Bombay region the trend had been to fix the age of retire ment at 60 years.
Reliance was placed for this purpose on the Chart exhibit Cl.
The work men objected to this being received in evidence on the ground that the original letters had not been brought on the record.
In most of the cases the age of retirement is shown as 55 and in a few at 58.
At first sight therefore it appears to afford impressive 1  2  428 testimony against the workmen s case that the recent trend in Bombay has been to fix the age of retirement at 60.
The Statement filed by the workmen to explain this Chart shows that in two of these cases  viz Ingerzoll Band and Northern Assurance Co the demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 years is under negotiation.
There is thus good ground for thinking that the reason why these concerns have kept the age of retirement at 55 or 58 are special to them and do not show any recent trend in the matter.
The main diffi culty in accepting the Company s case on this point viz the pronouncements of this Court however remained.
Having embarked an this enquiry the Tribunal appears to have taken considerable pains to perform this duty and it has ultimately persuaded itself to hold that no such trend is established in fact.
We ought to add in this connection that the approach adopted by the Tribunal in dealing with this aspect of the problem is not very commendable and that its present conclusion that what was said by itself on an earlier occasion and was confirmed by this Court in appeal was in fact inaccurate is on the whole unsound.
If this Court had erred in making those pronouncements we would be the first to admit such mistakes and to correct the error.
What the Tribunal has failed to notice is that instances which may justify a revision of the judicial opinion expressed on an earlier occasion about a particular trend must be strong and unambiguous and they must speak for the period both before and more particularly after the previous finding had been recorded in the matter.
Appeal allowed.
