This suit No 103 of 1954 was instituted on the 13th September 1954 under section 87 of the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act No XIX of 1951 hereinafter called the Act  in the Court of the District Munsif at Turaiyur.
The learned trial Judge examined the whole evidence and came to the conclusion that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam and that it was not a grant in favour of the religious endowment within the meaning of the Act.
The alternative plea made by the appellants that they had acquired title to the properties by prescription was also upheld by the trial Judge.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants  claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession the lower appellate Court found that it was evident that from the very beginning Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
Having thus held that the properties belonged to the Temple the learned Judge proceeded to consider the question of limitation by reference to the several alienations with which the present litigation is concerned.
It was conceded before the lower appellate Court that the new article was not retrospective in operation and that if the title of the alienees in regard to dharmadlayam properties had been acquired by adverse possession prior to 1 1 1929 it would not be affected by the provisions of article 134 B Thus considered the alienations in regard to items 1 2 part of item 3 items 7  8 and a portion of the well in item 5 sold under Ext.
was upheld.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
In fact it is substantially because of this decision that Articles 134 A 134 B and 134 C and Articles 48A and 48B came to be inserted in the First Schedule to the Limitation Act by Amending Act 1 of 1929.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
127 and transferred the endowed property the sales were null and void in the absence of a custom allowing them and that the possession taken by the purchaser was adverse to the vendors and those claiming under them.
In appreciating the effect of this decision it is necessary to bear in mind that the plea of limitation with which the Privy Council was concerned in that case was based on article 124 of the Limitation Act.
4 LR 62 IA 47.
In the words of Sir John Edge who spoke for the Privy Council in Nainapillai Marakayar and of hers vs Ramanathan Chettiar and Others5  in the case of a Shebait a grant by him 1 LR 27 IA 69.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
129 in violation of his duty of an interest in endowed lands which he has no authority as Shebait to make may possibly under some circumstances be good as against himself by way of estoppel but is not binding upon his successors.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
The period prescribed for such suits is 12 years and the time from which the period begins to run is the death resignation or removal of the transferor.
Once that is proved is it necessary for him also to show that the transfer was made on the basis that the property belonged to the religious endowment  In our opinion such a limitation cannot be read in the words used by the said article.
 What was said by the Privy Council about the impropriety of including an execution sale within the meaning of article 134B can with equal justification be said about introducing words of limitation in the said article which alone can exclude transfers made by the previous manager of the Hindu religious endowment on the basis that the property transferred belonged to 1 LR 77 IA 42 at pp.
49 50.
131 him.
Mr Tatachari then contends that even on the application of article 134 B the decision of the High Court is erroneous because on the facts proved in this case the High Court should have drawn the legal inference that the transferor had been removed more than 12 years before the suit was filed.
He contends that the question as to whether on facts proved in the present case an inference can be drawn that the previous manager or trustee had been removed is a mixed question of fact and law and the High Court was in error in reversing the decisions of the courts below by holding that the title of the temple had not been lost by adverse possession before the suit was filed.
For deciding this question it is necessary to refer to some material facts.
That is why he confirmed the finding of the trial Judge on the question of adverse possession though on a somewhat different ground.
The High Court has relied on the fact that the alienor is still alive and so it thought that the plea of adverse possession could not be sustained.
