Mudholkar J.
 The order was made by the Chairman of the Board Mr R C Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
On June 4 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19 1965.
specified in sub cls.
i to iii.
i to iii.
21944 FCR 1.
At any rate the case was argued on this footing.
a of sub section.
1 of section 637 read with sub section.
1 of section 642 read with sub section.
Distribution of business The Chairman may with the previous approval of the Central Government by order in writing distribute the business of the Board among himself and the other member or members and specify the cases or classes of cases which shall be considered jointly by the Board.
The Board.
It is not necessary to go into it.
These inferences are of many kinds and it will be useful to make a mention of them here in a tabular form a that the business is being conducted with intent to defraud i creditors of the company or ii members 336 or iii any other person b that the business is being conducted i for a fraudulent purpose or ii for an unlawful purpose c that persons who formed the company or manage its affairs have been guilty of i fraud or ii misfeasance or other misconduct to wards the company or towards any of its members.
No jurisdiction outside the section which empowers the initiation of investigation can be exercised.
The High Court did not look into the documents.
 Paragraph 14 of the affidavit.
If section 237b is used by members as an alternative to section 236 the evidence must unerringly point to the grounds on which alone action can be founded.
The naming of I delegate to do an act involving a discretion indicates that the delegate was selected because of his peculiar skill and the confidence reposed in him and there is a presumption that he is required to do the act himself and cannot redelegate his authority.
The learned Attorney General submitted that a distribution of business among the members of the Company Law Board is not a delegation of its authority and the maxim has no application in 341 such a case.
Shelat J.
