No claim was made for rents or taxes although it was alleged that the same were in arrears.
Fifth Additional 172 Court Alipore on November 23 1949.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
The definition of a thika tenant was modified slightly but the change affected thereby need not be taken account of because the respondent Gaffur s position was not improved thereby.
5 of section 2 the definition of a thika tenant or violation of a condition consistent with the Act by a breach of which he was under the terms of a contract between himself and his landlord liable to be ejected iii refusal to agree to pay rent at such enhanced rate as might be determined under section 25 iv requirement 174 of the land by the landlord for his own occupation or for the purpose of building on the land or otherwise developing the land except during any period limited by a registered lease under which the tenant might be holding v failure on the part of the holding for his own residential manufacturing or business purpose for more than six consecutive months omitting the priviso and vi on the expiry of a registered lease in favour of the tenant.
S 4 provided It shall not be competent for a landlord to eject any thika tenant from his holding unless the landlord has given the thika tenant notice in the manner provided in section 106 of the  a in the case where he wishes to eject the thika tenant on any of the grounds specified in clauses i ii iii and iv of section 1 at least one month s notice in writing expiring with the end of a month of the tenancy and b in the case where he wishes to eject the thika tenant on the ground specified in clause iv of section 3 at least three months  notice in writing expiring with the end of a month of the tenancy.
Under section 27 any person aggrieved by an order of the Controller might present an appeal in writing either to the Chief Judge of the Court of Small Causes in the Presidency town or to 175 the District Judge of a district in which the holding was situate.
Sub section.
5 or an other like system.
No exception was made under section 29 to cases where possession of the holding had been recovered from the thika tenant.
The only qualification was that even if the suit had been filed before the Act but was riot disposed of by that date the landlord had to establish that be was entitled to possession because of the existence of any of the grounds mentioned in section 3.
By section 2 of this Ordinance the definition of thika tenant in the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 was substituted by a new one namely 5 thika tenant  means any person who holds whether under a written lease or otherwise land under another person and is but for a special contract would be liable to pay rent at a monthly or at any other periodical rate for that land to that another person and has erected any structure on such land for a residential manufacturing or business purpose and includes the successor in interest of such person but does not include a person a who holds such land under that another person in perpetuity or b who holds such land under that another person under a registered lease in which the duration of the lease is expressly stated to be for a period of not less than twelve years or c who holds such land under that another person and uses or occupies such land as a khattal.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
1 of section 5 made the Act as amended by the Ordinance applicable to all cases pending before a court or a controller.
Sub section.
2 of section 5 of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance were to be continued as if such sub sections.
Sub section.
Only suits which were pending on 21st October 1952 were to be decided in terms of the Act as finally amended.
According to Craies on Statute Law Sixth Edition at p 391 If it is a necessary implication from the language employed that the legislature intended a particular section to have a retrospective operation the courts will give it such an operation.
This was decided in terms of the Gaming Act 1845 section 18 of which enacted that  no suit shall be brought or maintained for recovering any such sum of money  and the question was whether that enactment was retrospective so as to defeat an action already commenced.
The legislature clearly meant section 4 to be prospective because according to its language the landlord who wishes to eject the thika tenant 1 2 39 Times Law Reporter 31 181 must give at least one month s notice in writing or three months  notice as the case may be.
Section 28 was meant to give relief to a thika tenant in a case where a decree or order for recovery of possession of any holding from a thika tenant had been made before the date of commencement of the Act.
The language of section 5 being closely similar to that used in section 4 that section should also be held to be prospective only.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
Most of the Rent Control Acts all over India contain similar provisions and courts have always held such provisions applicable to pending proceedings.
