e Shri PK Mohanti district and sessions judge Bolangir Kalahandi as deputy secretary to the law department a post which was vacant then and f Shri PC Dey member sales tax tribunal as district and sessions judge Bolangir Kalahandi.
The government s prayer for necessary certificates for leave to appeal to this Court was rejected.
then the transfer of District Judges already appointed or promoted and posted in the cadre must necessarily be outside the power of the Governor and fall to be made by the High Court as part of the control vested in it by article 235 After analysing articles 233 and 235 and noticing the development of the law on the subject this Court held that under article 233 the Governor is only concerned with the appointment promotion and posting to the cadre of district judges but not with the transfer of district judges already appointed or promoted and posted to the cadre which power is vested in the High Court under article 235 as the control given to the High Court over the district courts under that Article includes control over the officers who preside over those courts.
He must depend on his department for information.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues with personal information deal with the matter than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
I entirely deny that it can 1  2 1901 AC 495.
163 be quoted for a proposition that may seem to follow logically from it.
 It is not a profitable task to extract a sentence here and there from a judgment and to build upon it.
Neither Bagchi s case nor Ranga Mahammad s case is of any assistance to us in deciding the question whether the High Court has competence to fill some of the posts in the secretariat by transfer judicial officers under Its control.
It is for the executive to say whether a particular officer would meet its requirements or not.
No doubt all these officers belong to the judicial service of the State and they were before 1962 presiding over district courts or courts subordinate to them and as such were under the control of the High Court.
That part of the High Court s order is clearly unsustainable.
Those officers are now functioning in the posts to which they were transferred.
