289 PATANJALI SASTRI CJ.
 Before considering whether section 51 infringes to any and what extent the constitutional prohibition under article 14 it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
In other words section 5 1 must in my opinion be read as empowering the State Government to direct a special court to try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as in its judgment require speedier trial.
2  4  566 567 568.
Government is not a simple thing.
3  2  300 provision Day J observed after referring to certain prior decisions  These cases leave in no doubt the proposition that the conferring of discretionary power upon administrative boards to grant or withhold permission to carry on a trade or business which is the proper subject of regulation within the police power of the state is not violative of rights secured by the 14th Amendment.
They alone know the local conditions and circumstances which demanded the enactment of such a law and it must be remembered that legislatures are ultimate guardians of the liberties and 304 welfare of the people in quite as great a degree as the Courts per Holmes J in Missouri K  TR Co vs Mary1 .
Missouri vs Lewis 1.
As pointed out by Chakravartti J 1  2 321 US I 305 The notification by which the case of Anwar Ali Sirkar the respondent herein was directed to be tried by the special court did not relate merely to that case but covered five more cases in each of which the accused were several in number.
FAZL ALl J.
Now the framers of the Criminal Procedure Code which is hereinafter referred to as the Code also were alive to the desirability of having a speedy trial in cer tain classes of cases and with this end in view they made four different sets of provisions for the trial of four classes of cases these being provisions relating to summary trials trial of summons cases trial of warrant cases and trial of cases triable by a court of session.
MAHAJAN J.
MUKHERJEA J.
It was held that the equal protection clause could be availed of against the taxing officer but if he was found to have acted bona fide and the discrimination was the result of a mere error of judgment on his part the action would fail.
There is no dispute that the question of the validity of section 5 of the West Bengal Special Courts Act 1950 has to be determined in the light of the provisions of the Constitution of India which came into force on January 26 1950.
FN Balsara 2.
In order to pass the test two conditions must be fulfilled namely 1 that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes those that are grouped together from others 1  2  335 and 2 that that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act.
The different sec tions of the Act have been analysed and the important dif ferences have been clearly indicated by the learned Chief Justice of West Bengal and need not be repeated in detail.
The elimination of the committal proceedings and of trial by jury sec 6 the taking away of the right to a de novo trial on transfer sec 7 the vesting of discretion in the Special Court to refuse to summon a defence witness if it be satisfied that his evidence will not be material sec.
Section 5 1 of the Act runs as follows  A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as the State Government may by general or special order in writing direct.
CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
Distinctions have to be made for different classes and groups of persons and a rational or reasonable classification is permitted as otherwise it would be almost impossible to carry on the work of Govern ment of any State or country.
Bombay and Another vs.
On the terms of section 5 it would be perfectly open to the State Government to send before the Special Court any case whatever its nature whether it has arisen out of a particular incident or re lates to a crime of normal occurrence whether the offence involved is grave or simple whether it needs more expedi tious trial or not.
Thereupon the Inspector filed a bill of complaint against the plaintiff company for a preliminary and a per petual injunction from working its mines without leaving a barrier pillar of the dimensions he thought necessary.
The legislative Act was challenged by the Plymouth Coal Co on the grounds that the method of fixing the width of the barrier pillar indicated in the Act was crude uncer tain and unjust that there was uncertainty and want of uniformity in the membership of the statutory tribunal that there was no provision of notice to the parties interested that the procedure to be followed was not prescribed and that there was noright of appeal.
The Court observed on the main contention that it was competent for the legislature to lay 355 down a general rule and then establish an administrative tribunal with authority to fix the precise width or thick ness of pillar that will suit the necessities of the partic ular situation and constitute a compliance with the general rule This case is no authority for the position that the mere conferment of naked or uncontrolled power is no viola tion of the due process or c equality clauses.
 A difficulty was suggested and discussed in the course of the arguments in case article 14 was to receive a very wide interpretation.
Under article 12 of the 356 Constitution even a local authority comes within the defi nition of the State and section 13 provides in sub clause 3 that  law  includes any ordinance order bye law rule regulation notification   Therefore any ordinance or notification issued by a local authority acting under the powers conferred on it by a statute might be challenged as discriminatory and if this is permitted the work of administration might be paralysed altogether.
Trevor Harries CJ has taken the view that section 5 of the Act would have been unexceptionable had it only provided for the trial by a Special Court of certain of fences or classes of offences or certain classes of cases and that in his opinion the discrimination arose by the provision for the trial of cases as distinguished from classes of cases.
The Act indicates no basis whatsoever on which such classification should be made.
The law of the Constitution is not only for those who govern or for the theorist but also for the bulk of the people for the common man for whose benefit and pride and safeguard the Constitution has also been written.
