The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co Limited.
not think that such a consideration should be taken.
between.
There is only an exception in the case of Indian Aluminium Company.
The nature of work is such that the total number of workmen employed does not exceed 125 which is a very small number as compared  with the number of workmen employed by the Company.
On behalf of the workmen it was urged before the Tribunal that the proportion should be 3 1 1 so that the production bonus and the dearness allowance would both be equal and 13rd of the basic wage.
In connection with the fixation of minimum wage one point vehemently argued by learned counsel for the workmen was that at least the dearness allowance element of the wage should have been made variable with the Price Index so that the labour could automatically be compensated for further rise in the cost of living subsequent to the making of the award.
Learned counsel appearing for the Company drew our attention to the fact that the revised wages are payable with effect from 13th December 1962 and by this time a period of 5 to 6 years has elapsed so that the Company will have to pay arrears of wages for this long period.
It was urged that this would cast a very heavy burden on the Company.
of arguments at the last stage before us learned counsel for the workmen confined his arguments to the bonus for the year 1962 63 only.
The reference was ultimately made by the Government under section 101 of the Act but it was made in the same form in which the parties had agreed to.
refer it.
The reference was made by the Government on the 4th October 1962.
Further the Tribunal was expected to decide the dispute only as referred to it and at the time of reference at least there was not and there could possibly not be a claim for higher bonus on the basis of the application of the Full Bench Formula.
The argument is incorrect.
that the bonus is worked out on the basis of the total wages paid.
In such cases the calculation is still on the basis of basic wage because it cannot be assumed that their wage is a consolidated wage consisting of the two 678 elements of basic wage and dearness allowance lumped together.
The Tribunal rejected this demand on the ground that under the Agreement of 1959 the workmen and the Company had agreed specifically to exclude these classes of workers in regard to payment of bonus.
The claim in this respect also fails.
