No 65 of 1969.
Petition under article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of fundamental rights.
section V Gupte P A Choudhury and K Rajendra Chaudhuri for the petitioners.
Sardar Ali Khan P N Duda and J B Dadachanji for res pondent No 46.
P A Choudhury K Rajendra Chaudhuri and C section Sreenivasa Rao for the interveners.
All of them were working in various offices located in the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad.
On January 19 1969 leaders of all political parties in the Legislature of the Andhra Pradesh State appeared to have met and reached the decision that to Implement what are called Telengana Safeguards  the following measures should be taken  All non domicile persons who have been appointed either directly by promotion or by transfer to posts reserved under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Rules 1959 for domiciles of Telengana region will be immediately relieved from service.
 117 The Government of Andhra Pradesh then passed an order GOMs 36 GA SR Dept on January 21 1969 relieving before February 28 1969 all non domicile persons appointed on or after November 1 1956 to certain categories of posts reserved for domiciles of Telengana under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Rules 1959.
The action was based upon section 3 of the Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Act 1957 44 of 1957 which was an Act of Parliament made in pursuance of cl.
3 of article 16 of the Constitution making special provision for requirement as to residence and brought into force on March 21 1959.
It provided 3.
The third pause then makes an exception.
This clause was amended by the Constitution Seventh Amendment Act 1956.
For the original words of the clause under any State specified in the First schedule or any local or other authority within its territory any requirement as to residence within that State  the present words from under the Government  to Union territory  have been substituted.
120 The clause thus enables Parliament to make a law in a special case prescribing any requirement As to residence within a State or Union territory prior to appointment as a condition of employment in the State or Union territory.
Under article 35a this power is conferred upon Parliament but is denied to the Legislatures of the States notwithstanding anything in the Constitution and under b any law in force immediately before the commencement of the Constitution in respect to the matter shall subject to the terms thereof and subject to such adaptations that may be made under article 372 is to continue in force until altered or repealed or amended by Parliament.
any requirement as to residence within the State or Union territory prior to employment or appointment to an office in that State or Union territory.
Two questions arise here.
Firstly whether Parliament  while prescribing the requirement may prescribe the requirement of residence in a particular part of the State and secondly whether Par liament can delegate this function by making a declaration and leaving the details to be filled in by the rule making power of the Central or State Governments.
Mr section V Gupte for the petitioners points out that the Constitution is speaking of State and Union territory.
It has already made a declaration that no person shall be disqualified for any office in the territory of India because of his residence in any particular part of India.
more appropriate and specific language could have been used such as any requirement as to residence within that State or Union territory or part of that State or Union territory .
121 The claim for supremacy of Parliament is misconceived.
What the Constitution says is a matter forconstruction of the language of the Constitution.
The claim of Mr Setalvad that Parliament can make a provision regarding residence in any particular part of a State would render the general prohibition lose all its meaning.
Y P Petitions allowed.
