Appeal No 1940 of 1967.
By an agreement dated November 27 1954 between Raval and Faraqui on the one hand and Messrs Filmistan Distributors India Private Ltd hereinafter called Filmistan on the other hand right to exhibit cinematograph films was granted to the latter on certain terms and conditions.
The learned Judge observed that the issues were not purely of law that in any event the case or any part thereof was not likely to be disposed of on these issues and that ordinarily in appealable cases the Court should as far as possible decide all the issues together and that piecemeal trial might result in protracting the litigation.
A revision application against that order was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Gujarat.
being recorded counsel for the defendants asked in cross examination the question whether the agreement between the plaintiff and defendant Nos 5 and 6 was a commercial transaction and was not a lease  The question was objected to by counsel appearing for Filmistan.
The Trial Judge observed that he had carefully gone through the consent decree and the registered agreement dated December 1 1960 and he found that the consent decree had not decided that the transaction between the parties of the year 1954 was in the nature of a lease that in the plaint in the earlier suit it was not even averred that the rights granted were in the nature of leasehold rights that suit No 149 of 1960 was for declaration of the rights of Filmistan to exhibit motion pictures in the theatre under the agreement dated November 27 1954 and for an injunction restraining the defendants from violating the said rights of Filmistan under the agreement and that the agreement dated December 1 1960 was not plain enough to exclude the oral evidence of the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the parties to explain its terms and language.
Accordingly he held that the question asked in cross examination of the witnesses for Filmistan intended to secure disclosure of the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the parties in order to show in what manner the language of the document was related to the existing facts could not be excluded.
Filmistan feeling dissatisfied with the order invoked the revisional jurisdiction of the High Court of Gujarat under section 115 of  the Code of Civil Procedure.
The High Court referred to a number of authorities and observed that the correctness of the findings of the Trial Court on issues Nos 12 and 13 may not be examined in exercise of the powers under section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Once the jurisdiction of the Court has been taken away any proposal to reopen the question closed by the earlier decision would be exercise of jurisdiction which is not vested in the Court by law and to that extent the decision would become revisable even if it is the decision as to the res judicata of an issue and concluded It is not open to me in revision at this stage to express any opinion about the rights and contentions of the parties with reference to the agreement of December 1 1960.
But the only thing that can be said is that so far as the agreement of November 27 1954 is con cerned it must be held in view of the consent decree of December 1 1960 that that document of November 27 1954 created a lease .
The learned Judge will not proceed with the trial.
By section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure the High Court is invested with power to call for the record of any case decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereo if such subordinate court appears a to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law or b to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or c to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity and to make such order in the case as it thinks fit.
Exercise of the power is broadly subject to three important conditions 1 that the decision is of a Court subordinate to the High Court 2 that there is a case which has been decided by the subordinate Court and 3 that the subordinate Court has exercised jurisdiction not vested in it by law or to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.
The Court gave no finding expressly or by implication on the issue of res judicata or any other issue.
A matter in contest in a suit may operate as res judicata only if there is an adjudication by the Court  the terms of section II of the Code leave no scope for a contrary view.
The true nature of the order brought before the High Court and the dimensions of the dispute covered thereby apparently got blurred and the High Court proceeded to decide matters on which no decision was till then recorded by the Trial Court and which could not be decided by the High Court until the parties had opportunity to lead evidence thereon.
It may also be observed that by ordering that a question may properly to put to a witness who was being examined no case was decided by the Trial Court.
The expression case is not limited in its import to the entirety of the matter in dispute in an action.
F J Dillon1 that the expression case is a word of comprehensive import  it includes a civil proceeding and is not restricted by anything contained in section 115 of the Code to the entirety of the proceeding in a civil court.
To interpret the expression case as an entire proceeding only and not a part of the proceeding imposes an unwarranted restriction on the exercise of powers of superintendence and may result in certain cases in denying relief to the aggrieved litigant where it is most needed and may result in the perpetration of gross injustice.
The order passed by the High Court is set aside and the Trial Court is directed to proceed and dispose of the suit.
We recommend that the form of the issues Nos 11 12 and 13 will be rectified by the learned Trial Judge.
Filmistan will pay the costs of the appeal in this Court and in the High Court.
GC Appeal allowed.
