Appeal No 949 of 1966.
M C Chagla and B R Agarwala for the appellant.
section T Desai R N Sachthey and B D Sharma for the respondent.
The case was twice re manded to the Tribunal.
The first Order of the Court remanding the case to the Tribunal was delivered by Shah Ag C J Ms Amarchand Sobhachand a firm registered under the Indian Income tax Act 1922 carried on business at Madras in drugs chemicals mercury camphor and silk yam and as money lenders.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect of their business transactions.
Entries relating to interest were posted till the end of Samvat Year 2006 in the account on the amount due at the foot of the account.
2633 9 3 2005 Cr27815 0 0Dr.
483 1 9 2006 Cr11975 0 0Cr.
1008 7 3 2007 Dr202823 12 3 2008 Dr268385 1 3 In the assessment for income tax of the appellants for the assessment year 1952 53 relevant to the account year Samvat 417 2007 all item of Rs 203147 8 O in the account of the Bombay was disallowed by the Income tax Officer but in appeal the amount was allowed.
A bad and doubtful debt due to the taxpayer written off as irrecoverable in the books of account was properly allowable in computing the taxable profits from business profession or vocation where accounts were not kept on the cash basis if the debt was in respect of a loan made in the course of the taxpayer s business as a banker or money lender or when the taxpayer was carrying on any other business the debt was in respect of that other business.
A bad and doubtful debt due to an assessee in respect of banking or money lending business is allowable under section 102 xi if it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business.
A bad and doubtful debt in respect of a business other than banking or money lending is allowable even if it is not in respect of loan  but a debt due in the course of the business of a money lending is not allowable unless it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of his business.
In the interest of justice we direct that the question be reframed as follows  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal erred in disallowing the debt of Rs 268385 written off by the assessee in their books of account as irrecoverable.
The Tribunal s order is very brief  it gives no reasons in support of the conclusions.
The argument based on the first part of section 102 xi that the debts were due in respect of the business of the appellants other than money lending was not considered at all and the Tribunal disposed of the second part of the case by merely observing that it was an accommodation account to enable the Bombay firm to tide over the financial crisis threatening it in Samvat Year 2007 and that the trans actions in the account were totally unconnected with the normal business of the appellants.
An accommodation advance is a neutral expression  it may be of the nature of a loan advanced in the ordinary course of business by a money lender it may be an advance the money lending or other business of the assessee but not in the nature of a loan or it may be wholly unrelated to the business of the tax payer.
The statement submitted by the Tribunal is also inadequate.
It contains only a summary of the business relations between.
But the Tribunal has not raised any inference from these circumstances and has merely observed that charging of interest cannot make it a money lending account.
The order of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
Since the Tribunal has not found the facts we are constrained to send back the case again to the Tribunal for submitting to this Court a supplementary statement on facts found by the Tribunal.
Two minors Ramniklal Sobhachand and Lakshmichand Sobhachand were admitted to the benefits of the partnership.
In the assessment of income tax of the appellant for the assessment year 1952 53 relevant to the account year Samvat 2008 the assessee claimed a deduction of Rs 268385 as bad debt due from the Bombay firm incurred by that firm in the course of business transactions.
It accordingly .
reframed the question as follows Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Appellate Tribunal erred in disallowing a sum of Rs 268385 written off by the assessee in their books of accounts as irrecoverable  By its order dated July 29 1969 this Court called upon the Tribunal to submit a supplementary statement of case on the reframed question.
The tribunal accordingly submitted a fresh statement of the case on the question referred.
 423 It is true as contended by the learned Counsel for the asstssee that the conclusions reached by the tribunal are not supported by proper discussion of the material before it.
No costs.
GC Appeal dismissed.
