Section 6 sub section.
The phrase regulated by usage in section 69 of the Act must be construed along with the phrase succession to this office and when so construed that part of the definition would only apply where the ordinary rules of succession under the Hindu law are modified by usage and succession has to be determined in accordance with the modified rules.
It is now well established that the office of a hereditary trustee is in the nature of property.
Ordinarily a shebaitship or the office of dharmakartha is vested in the heirs of the founder unless the founder has laid down a special scheme of succession or except when usage or custom to the contrary is proved to exist.
In Sital Das vs Sant Ram5 the law was taken as wellsettled that succession to mahantship of a mutt or religious institution is regulated by custom or usage of the particular institution except where the rule of succession is laid down by the founder himself who created the endowment.
In that case the custom in 1 2 63 I A 448.
4  5 5 ALR.
1954 SC 606.
In Sri Mahant Paramanda Das Goswami vs Radhakrishna Das1 the Madras High Court took the view that where succession to the mahantship is by nomination by the holder in office it was not a hereditary succession.
In that case Venkatasubba Rao J said If the successor owes his title to nomination or appointment that is his succession depends on the volition of the last incumbent and does not rest upon independent title I am inclined to the view that the office cannot be said to be hereditary Krishnan J stated as follows Where succession is by nomination by the holder in office of his successor it seems to be impossible to contend that it is a hereditary succession.
Hereditary succession is succession by the heir to the deceased under the law the office must be transmitted to the successor according to some definite rules of descent which by their own force designate the person to succeed.
There need be no blood relationship between the deceased and his successor but the right of the latter should not depend upon the choice of any individual.
In Black s Law Dictionary the word succession  is defined as follows The revolution of title to property under the law of descent and distribution.
1 428 The right by which one set of men may by succeeding another set acquire a property in all the goods movables and other chattels of a corporation.
The fact of the transmission of the rights estate obligations and charges of a deceased person to his heir or heirs.
For these reasons we hold that this appeal fails and must be dismissed with costs.
