After the passing of the Bombay Public Trusts Act 1950 No 29 of 1950 briefly the Act an application under section 18 of that Act was filed by three persons Bhaskarrao Chimanrao Deshmukh Ramrao Sahebrao Deshmukh and Ramkrishna Tryambak Deshpande as constituted attorneys of Vasudeobuwa who was described in the application as the owner of the property.
Hence this appeal by special leave which was obtained on March 29 1968 after condonation of delay in the peculiar circumstances of the case arising out of revocation by the High Court of its earlier certificate in favour of the appellant on account of default of deposit of security.
In the absence of anything to the contrary of a convincing nature a grant by the Government in favour of the temple describing the property to be in charge of a manager leads to an unerring inference that the property is a public religious endowment.
Then came Prahladbuwa.
This evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande stands corroborated by the Sanad which shows in the year 1860 61 the Manager of the Sansthan as Balkrishnabuwa Guru Govindbuwa.
Guru Govindbuwa was the second in the line of succession after Sakharam the founder and Balkrishnabuwa being the third in the line.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
x x x x x The Dindi of the said Sansthan from Amalner remains at Shivgaon on the 30th of Jeshta vadya or on the 1st of Ashad Shudha according to practice every year.
The last deed of gift is exhibit 38 and the donee is Shri Vasudev Buwa Guru Balkrishna Buwa described as the worshipper carrying on the Vahiwat of Shri Vithal Rekhmai Sansthan.
The cardinal point to be decided is whether it was the intention of the founder that specified individuals are to have the right of worship at the shrine or the general public or any specified portion thereof.
In accordance with this theory it has been held that when property is dedicated for the worship of a family idol it is a private and not a public endowment as the persons who are entitled to worship at the shrine of the deity can only be the members of the family and that is an ascertained group of individuals.
vs Sm.
Charusila Dasi.
And in such circumstances proof of user by the public without interference would be cogent evidence that the dedication was in favour of the public.
Your bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
     The residents of the place where the Bhajans are performed attend these Bhajans.
In the days of Pandharpur fair the Maharaj remains present.
He stays there for about 4 months.
During his stay at Pandharpur Bhajans are performed daily.
All their expenses of boarding and lodging are met by this Sansthan.
3 There has been no evidence of any hindrance or restriction in the matter of continuous worship by the public extending over a long period.
6 Collection of subscriptions were made from house to house by taking Maharaj and also for Gulal  ceremony.
