Besides the learned Judge was openly attacking the Govern ment in its political as well as administrative decision.
Chandrawati.
He also enquired all about Shri Sohan Lal a leader of the teacher s movement in the State.
It was intended to be a privileged communication made solely with a view to uphold the dignity of the Court.
have no relevance or relation to the functioning of the learned Judge of the High Court.
The deponent submits that there was no intention whatsoever on his part to scandalise the Hon ble Judge or this Hon ble Court or to lower the authority or undermine the prestige of the learned Judge or of the Hon  ble Court or to weaken in any way the confidence of the people in the administration of justice.
 The Full Bench of the High Court consisting of Justice Surjit Singh Sandhawalia Justice Prem Chand Jain and Jus tice Bhupinder Singh Dhillon extracted portions from the affidavit of the appellants to which references has been made.
Therefore the deponent tender his apology to this Hon ble Court for the same and prays for its acceptance.
The elementary basis of acceptance of apology is that there is to be a finding of committal of contempt.
In the absence of any finding by the High Court that the appellants committed any contempt of court there was never any occasion for acceptance of apology.
The High Court did not mention which particular portion of the letter constituted contempt of court.
It is necessary to state here that if any Judge address es on political problems or controversies the Judge exposes himself to discussion by public.
However if the speech of any Judge is criticised and if it becomes a disputed question of fact as to whether any Judge did speak or not as is alleged by the writer the matter would have to be ascertained by the court on facts whether the Judge concerned did speak on the matters ascribed to him before the court would take any action against the persons who would criticise the Judge s speech.
Judges are by reason of their office and nature of work expected not to get involved in controversial matters or to concern themselves with political issues or policies under taken by political parties as a part of their political programme.
The High.
247 The judgment is set aside.
