M R Parpia J B Dadachanji and section N Andley for the appellant.
This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Bombay dismissing an application made to it under article 226 of the Constitution.
He was arrested on the 9th June 1955 and is in detention since then under the impugned order which runs as follows 384 No P D A 1555A Political and Services Department Secretariat Bombay 8th June 1955.
O R D E R.
The validity of the order is challenged on the following contentions.
1The order of detention was mala fide.
It was passed for the ulterior purpose of preventing his freedom of speech and freedom of professional activity in the sphere of Goan affairs by reason of his known views in this behalf.
385 4The claim of State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest is unsustainable and in any case mala fide.
It is therefore enough to state in its broad outlines the background which is alleged as follows 1a There was a sudden search by the police on the 24th August 1954 at the appellant s place for alleged possession of illicit liquorwhich in fact was not found.
bOn the same day a search was carried out by the police also at his residence at Mahim but nothing was found.
The appellant s counsel strongly urged that the bona fides of the detaining authority is to be judged with reference to the above background of events and that viewed in that light the vagueness of the grounds and the belated claim of privilege under article 226 of the Constitution strengthen his contention.
It is not in public interest to disclose these details nor is it necessary to mention these matters to afford 389 the petitioner reasonable opportunity to make a representation Now the question as to whether the grounds furnished are vague or not is ultimately a question that has to be determined on a consideration of the circumstances of each case as was pointed out by this court in the State of Bombay vs Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya1 in the following passage The contention that the grounds are vague requires some clarification   .
In the present case the detenue has been intimated why in the opinion of the Government the activities of the appellant are considered prejudicial to the security of India and to the relations of India with Portugal.
3He is carrying on these activities with the object of causing further deterioration in the relations between the Portuguese Government and the Indian Government over the question of the Goan National Movement.
The fact that be bad made no such application for particulars is therefore a circumstance which may well be taken into consideration in deciding whether the grounds can be considered to be vague.
Assuming however that the grounds furnished in this case are open to the challenge of vagueness the further question which arises is whether the validity of the order of detention can be sustained by reason of the claim in public interest of non disclosure of facts made by the Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay by means of his affidavit filed in the High Court.
Now it has been held in Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya s case1 by the majority of the Court that the constitutional right of a detenue under article 225 comprises two distinct components.
On this assumption it was contended that the claim for non disclosure was invalid.
A faint suggestion has been made in the course of the arguments before us that the decision not to disclose particulars is mala fide and that such mala fides has to be imputed in a case where no particulars are at all furnished.
