ii X X X X X X iiiX X X X X X iv X X X X X X v where the annual letting 20 per centum value exceeds of the annual Rs 24000 letting value 2 The property tax levied under sub section 1 shall not be leviable in respect of the following properties namely 10 a building and lands owned by or vesting in i the Union Government ii the State Government iiithe Council.
Petitions Nos.
14 Section 69d of the Act of 1973 must accordingly be read to mean that respondent 1 shall have all the powers of taxation which a Municipal Corporation or a Municipal Council has for the time being that is to say at the time when respondent 1 seeks to exercise those powers.
The property tax is imposed by respondent 1 under section 127A of the Municipalities Act and section 135 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
It is therefore not necessary to follow the procedure prescribed by sections 129 and 133 of the respective Acts.
 In Heavy Engineering Mazdoor Union vs The State of Bihar  Ors the Heavy Engineering Corporation Limited was incorporated under the and its entire share capital was contributed by the Central Government.
Under section 51 of the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act 26 of 1973 which applies in the instant case the right title and interest of a nationalised coal mine vest by direction of the Central Government in the Government company.
Section 1411 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act provides that the property tax shall be paid primarily by the owner.
Basing himself on that consideration the Attorney General argues 1 By virtue of the declaration contained in section 2 of Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Act 1957 the legislative field covered by Entry 23 19 List II passed on the Parliament by virtue of Entry 54 List I 2 The Parliament enacted the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act 1973 for acquisition of coal mines with a view to reorganising and reconstructing such coal mines so as to ensure the rational coordinated and scientific development and utilisation of coal resources as best to subserve the common good.
Entry 54 of List I relates to Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest.
Section 68 defines the functions of the Special Area Development Authority one of which as prescribed by clause v is to provide the municipal services as specified in sections 123 and 124 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961.
Section 69 which defines the powers of the Authority shows that those powers are conferred inter alia for the purpose of municipal administration.
Entry 54 of List I does not contemplate the taking over of municipal functions.
In that case under the terms of a mining lease the lessee worked the mines and bound himself to pay a dead rent if he used the leased land for the extraction of iron ore and to pay surface rent in respect of the surface area occupied or used by him.
It was further held by the Court that the land cess was not a tax on mineral rights but was in truth and substance a tax on lands within the meaning of Entry 49 of the State List.
The power conferred by the State Legislature on Special Area Development Authorities to impose the property tax on lands and buildings is therefore not in conflict with the power conferred by the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act on the Union Government to regulate and develop the Coal mines so as to ensure rational and scientific utilisation of coal resources.
By the aforesaid declaration and the enactment of section 15 the whole of the field relating to minor minerals had come within the jurisdiction of Parliament and no scope was left for the enactment of the second proviso to section 10 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act.
The second sub rule added to Rule 20 was held to be without jurisdiction for the same reason.
It was contended on behalf of 23 the sugar undertakings that since sugar is a declared industry under the Industries Development and Regulation Act 1951 Parliament alone was competent to pass a law on the subject and the State Legislature had no competence to pass the impugned Act by reason of Entry 52 List I read with Entry 24 List II.
