Cheque for Rs 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January 1961.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
During the trial before the learned Subordinate Judge five different issues were raised.
The respondents plaintiffs examined Shri RV Bhupala Prasad son of the deceased and the Corporation on its behalf examined Shri Jagannadhachari the Superintendent of the Corpo 355 ration branch at Guntur.
B 4 the review slip prepared by the Branch office Guntur and sent to the Divisional officer Masulipatam.
In his deposition he had stated that the Divisional Manager was the competent authority for accepting the proposal for Rs 50000.
Normally it took some time for the Divisional Manager to accept.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
He further stated that according to the financial powers Standing order it was the Divisional Manager who was competent to accept a proposal for Rs 50000 exhibit B 13 is the copy of the Standing order.
He further stated that the letters DM  were also written by him indicating that the papers should go to the Divisional Manager on exhibit B 4.
When the acceptance was complete and when there was no requirement necessary and if the full first instalment was 356 in deposit it would be adjusted towards premium amount he stated.
Chapter III of the Standing order dealt with the powers of the different authorities for inter alia Underwriting and Revivals of Policy .
He held that as per the prospectus of Life Insurance Corporation of India the risk under the Corporation policy commenced on the date of receipt of the first premium in full or the date of acceptance whichever was later and the second instalment of the premium falls due on a date calculated from such date of commencement of risk.
In the result the suit filed by the respondents plaintiffs was dismissed with costs.
Being aggrieved by the said decision the plaintiffs respondents field appeal in the High Court.
The appellants before the High Court also filed civil miscellaneous petition praying that in the circumstances stated in the affidavit filed therewith the High Court might be pleased to direct the Life Insurance Corporation to produce certain documents viz proposals review slips and proposal dockets and the connected papers of the present case and statements furnished by the Divisional office to the Zonal office showing the new business in the year 1960 and proposal register work of Divisional office for the year 1960.
The High Court by its judgment dated 14th April 1970 held after considering the standing order exhibit B 13 and the various documents produced for the first time on record that there was acceptance of proposal and like 358 other contracts the contract of insurance was complete by offer and acceptance.
Relying on certain other documents which were called for for the first time by the High Court relating to certain other cases where only the Assistant Divisional Manager made similar endorsement the High Court came to the conclusion that there was a valid contract.
The High Court was of the view that the plea that Divisional Manager was the only authority to accept had not been categorically taken in the written statement filed on behalf of the Corporation.
The High Court was of the view that having regard to the conduct of the parties there was a concluded contract.
The High Court was of the view that the Corporation had not filed any evidence of any order prohibiting other officers one step below in rank in this case the Assistant Divisional Manager to exercise the power of Divisional Manager.
In our opinion the High Court was in error in appreciating the facts and the evidence in this case.
When an insurance policy becomes effective is well settled by the authorities but before we note the said authorities it may be stated that it is clear that the expression underwrite signifies accept liability under .
See in this connection the statement of law in Corpus Juris Secundum Vol.
XLV page 986 wherein it has been stated as The mere receipt and retention of premiums until after the death of applicant does not give rise to a contract although the circumstances may be such that approval could be inferred from retention of the premium.
The mere execution of the policy is not an acceptance an acceptance to be complete must be communicated to the offeror either directly or by some definite act such as placing the contract in the mail.
The test is not intention alone.
When the application so requires the acceptance must be evidenced by the signature of one of the company s executive officers.
 Though in certain human relationships silence to a proposal might convey acceptance but in the case of insurance proposal silence does not denote consent and no binding contract arises until 360 the person to whom an offer is made says or does something to signify his acceptance.
Mere delay in giving an answer cannot be construed as an acceptance as prima facie acceptance must be communicated to the offeror.
The general rule is that the contract of insurance will be concluded only when the party to whom an offer has been made accepts it unconditionally and communicates his acceptance to the person making the offer.
See in this connection statement of law in MacGillivray  Parkington on Insurance Law Seventh Edition page 94 paragraph 215.
Having regard to the clear position in law about acceptance of insurance proposal and the evidence on record in this case we are therefore of the opinion that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that there was a concluded contract of insurance between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation and on that basis reversing the judgment and the decision of the learned Subordinate Judge.
The appeal must therefore be allowed.
We however record that in view of the fact that such a long time has elapsed and further in view of the fact that principal amount together with interest amounting to about Rs 85000 have already been paid to the wife of the deceased and his children the Life insurance Corporation in this case does not insist on the full repayment of the sum paid and counsel on behalf of the Life Insurance Corporation has stated that they would accept if half of what has been received by the respondents namely principal together with interest is paid back to the Corporation.
We order accordingly that the respondents will therefore pay back half of the actual amount received both of the principal together with interest within three months from this date.
