They differed.
Ramehander died on the spot almost immediately.
Both give substantially the same version of what they saw of the assault.
Except for this all she says is that We saw the accused present striking Ramchander Shelke.
We think Rasika and Subhana are telling the truth when they say that these two accused were also there but we think that because of that they think they must have joined in the attack and so have added that detail to their story.
But that apart there is in our opinion no evidence here which would justify the conclusion of a common object even if one had been charged.
Turning now to section 34 that was not charged in Pandurang s case but we need not consider whether such an omission is fatal because even if it had been charged there is no evidence from which a common intention embracing him can legitimately be deduced.
They knew nothing about what went before.
People do not ordinarily act in unison like a Greek chorus and quite apart from dishonesty this is a favourite device with witnesses who are either not mentally alert or are mentally lazy and are given to loose thinking.
Now in the case of section 34 we think it is well established that a common intention presupposes prior concert.
It requires a pre arranged plan because before a man can be vicariously convicted for the 1095 criminal act of another the act must have been done in furtherance of the common intention of them all Mahbub Shah vs King Emperor1.
In a case like that each would be individually liable for whatever injury he caused but none could be vicariously convicted for the act of any of the others and if the prosecution cannot prove that his separate blow was a fatal one he cannot be convicted of the murder however clearly an intention to kill could be proved in his case Barendra Kumar Ghosh vs King Emperor2 and Mahbub Shah vs King Emperor1.
As their Lordships say in the latter case the partition which divides their bounds is often very thin nevertheless the distinction is real and substantial and if overlooked will result in miscarriage of justice.
It could arise and be formed suddenly as for example when one man calls on bystanders to help him kill a given individual and they either by their words or their acts indicate their assent to him and join him in the assault.
2 19241 LR 52 IA 40 49.
1096 Bhilia Tukia and Nilia are Lambadas Pandurang is a Hatkar and Tukaram a Maratha.
1097 similarity of the facts in one case cannot be used to determine a conclusion of fact in another.
Pandurang is accordingly only liable for what he actually did.
