The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY J.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
By section 24 of Amending Act 47 of 1978 a proviso to section 637 was introduced.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
The Tribunal took the view that having regard to the rule of preference enunciated by the proviso to section 637 the applications from the non preferred  category had to be excluded as the number of applications from the applicants who were required to be given preference exceeded the number of permits to be granted.
Section 471 C enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
Section 637 is the provision with whose interpretation and vires we are primarily concerned in this case.
 Sections 68 C 68 D and 68 E provide for the preparation and publication of schemes of road transport service to be provided by State Transport Undertakings the procedure to be followed etc.
471 H however provides that in the case of inter State route the Undertaking will have preference in the matter of stage carriage permit.
When an application for a stage carriage permit is being processed as required by sec.
In an application under Chapter IV Corporation has to enter the arena like any other applicant face the competition and come up to the level of other private operators intending to obtain stage carriage permits and then in respect of the route in question claim preference.
Though the permits to be granted are for tourist vehicles the preference is confined to operators of tourist cars and travel agents.
One may understand a preference granted to operators of tourist vehicles but it is difficult to understand why preference should be given to operators of tourist cars in the matter of granting permits for tourist vehicles which may well be omnibuses required to travel long distances.
Surely it cannot be said that experience of running a tourist taxi is a better qualification than running a tourist bus when the question of granting permits for tourist vehicles arises.
The High Court of Karnataka tided over the difficulty by interpreting the expression tourist cars as meaning tourist vehicles.
In the second place we have no indication as to the manner in which the approval of the Central Government is to be sought and granted and the considerations which are expected to weigh with the Central Government.
Shri CS Vaidyanathan learned counsel for the Preferred  Operators has placed before us a Scheme for granting approval to tourist transport operators in India  The scheme makes no reference to the proviso to sec.
637 of the .
On the other hand it mentions that approval carries with it certain privileges such as allotment of ex STC vehicles and that it is therefore necessary that the department is able to exercise some control on the functioning of these operators.
We think that clause iv of the proviso to section 637 is unconstitutional and we so declare it.
In the result we set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to hear the appeals in the light of what we have said.
