Emphasis supplied 5.
When the order was passed the petitioner had not surrendered but when the order was served the petitioner had already surrendered in respect of the criminal charge against him.
910 It is the contention of the petitionerappellant that the order of preventive detention could only be justified against a person in detention if the detaining authority was satisfied that his release from detention was imminent and the order of detention was necessary for putting him back in jail.
The service of order of detention on the petitioner while he was in jail was futile and useless since such an order had no application under section 32 of the Act.
Grounds were all indicated.
In those circumstances it appears that the grounds for forming the satisfaction for the need for the detention were there and there was rational nexus between the object of the order as contemplated by the Act and the materials on record.
26986.
Judged on the basis of 911 the said principles there is no ground for interference with the order of detention as passed.
From the affidavit of the District Magistrate it does not appear that either the prospect of immediate release of the detenu or other factors which can justify the detention of a person in detention were properly considered in the light of the principles noted in the aforesaid decision and especially in the decisions in Rameshwar Shaw vs District Magistrate Burdwan  Anr  and Ramesh Yadav vs District Magistrate Etah and others though there was a statement to the effect that the petitioner was in jail and was likely to be enlarged on bail.
In the facts and circumstances of this case therefore the continued detention of the detenu under the Act is not justified.
If a man is in custody and there is no imminent possibility of his being released the power of preventive detention should not be exercised.
In the instant case when the actual order of detention was served upon the detenu the detenu was in jail.
There is no indication that this factor or the question that the said detenu might be released or that there was such a possibility of his release was taken into consideration by the detaining authority properly and seriously before the service of the order.
A bald statement is merely an ipso dixit 912 of the officer.
The writ petition and the appeal are allowed to the extent indicated above.
