From the.
Rs50000 Pravin Kumar Gupta .
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee his father for the gift of Rs25000 made to him and Rs50000 gifted to his son.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
In the case of Commissioner of IncomeTax Ahmedabad vs Digvijaysinghji Tin Factory  on the contrary it was held that the gifts were valid though not sufficient cash with firm avail able but proper book entries were made.
It was held by the Bombay High Court that there was no valid gift.
The Madras High Court in the case of Mrs Ida L Cham bers and Three Others vs Kelland Huxford Chambers was dealing with a case where C proprietor of a business who had invested a large amount of capital in it caused entries to be made in his account books crediting his wife and certain other members of his family with sums which were debited to his capital account.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
C s wife withdrew various sums of money from time to time from the interest account and whenever C desired to retransfer amounts to his capital account he obtained let ters of consent from her.
It was further held that there was no trust either and that there was nothing in the acts or conduct of C to show that he intended to create a trust or to constitute himself a trus tee.
The decision of the Privy Council is reported in ILR 1944 at page 617 130 The Punjab and Haryana High Court in Balireal Nawal Kishore vs Commissioner of Income Tax Punjab held that the credit cash balance of the donor was Rs81000 and cash balance with firm was only Rs4299 but the unuti lised overdraft of the firm was Rs 127088.
In Sukhlal Sheo Narain vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax Haryana the Punjab  Haryana High Court had dealt with a case where the father had gifted Rs84000 ie Rs28000 to each of his sons.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax Burma held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
Shyamo Bibi had to deal with a case where the credit balance of 2 12 lakhs was with the firm.
Memo of gift recorded on stamp paper.
Cash Balance was only Rs7626.
No acceptance was produced.
The transfer was effected by debit ing the assessee s personal account in the books of the Hindu undivided family with Rs50000 and crediting the same in the personal account of his son.
It was held on the facts of that case that the asses see had made a valid gift of the value of Rs50000.
In the impugned judgment the Allahabad High Court had followed the said decision.
The Tribunal held that section 10 of the was not attracted and the sum of Rs 150000 could not be included in the property passing on the death of M and the High Court on a reference affirmed the viewes of the Tribunal.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
