1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India hereinafter referred to as the Corporation  which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months  notice or salary in lieu thereof.
Prior to January.
1955 there were more than 200 insur ers carrying on life insurance business in India.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers with a few exceptions were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
On the passing of the said Ordinance the management of the controlled business of all the insurers in India thus vested in the Central Government and pending the appointment of the custodians for the controlled business of any insurer the person in charge of the management of such business immedi ately before the passing of the Ordinance was required to be in charge of the management of the business for and on behalf of the Central Government.
The Ordinance was replaced by the which was published on 21st of March 1956.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
It therefore became necessary to transfer the services of the existing employees of the insurers to the Corporation because without the services of those employees it was almost impossible for the Corporation to run the life insur ance business in India which involved management of the various offices situated in different parts of India serv icing of lakhs of insurance policies the administration of the assets taken over from the insurers and several other activities connected with the life insurance business.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
Regulation 21 reads as follows 21.
As regards retirement the Government has mentioned that the Department of Expenditure has objected to raising the date of superannuation to 58 years of age on the ground that other statutory Corporations are also demanding the same benefit on the analogy of the Life Insurance Corporation s proposal.
In the case of the transferred employees the regula tion was in conformity with the standardisation order passed in respect of Class III and Class IV transferred employees in whose case the age of retirement was fixed at 60 years.
The employees of the Corporation were divided lati tudinally into two groups.
Before the date of his retirement he instituted a writ petition out of which these appeals arise in Civil Miscellaneous Writ No 6849 of 1984 on the file of the High Court of Allahabad questioning the validity of regulation 192 of the Staff Regulations 1960 as it stood then and praying for the issue of a writ in the nature of mandamus to the Corporation not to retire him before he completed the age of 60 years.
The object of enacting section 11 of the Act is dealt with in.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
The standpoint of the second limb of the sub section as its language plainly indicates is provided by the inter ests of the Corporation and its policy holders.
There is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section 2 in respect of transferred employees being struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part 111 of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees.
In the view of the majority in that case the two cadres started as independent services they were never integrated into one service and therefore the dissimilarity of the treatment by the Rules was not a denial Of equal opportunity.
On that day whereas the State cadre teachers were governed by 1955 Rules rules had yet to be framed for the provincialised cadre a diminishing one and bringing about ultimately through that principle one cadre only in the field in a phased manner.
If through historical reasons the teachers had remained in two separate catego ries the classification of the provincialised teachers into a separate cadre could not be said to infringe article 14 and article 16.
Thereafter only the employees who are directly recruited by the Corporation who are about 54000 in number would continue to remain in its service.
Accordingly the President of India agreed to release 16 persons from the service of the Government of India to enable the Corporation to appoint them in its service by the Order of the Central Government dated 25th February 1964.
While dealing with this question the Court can take judicial notice of the differ ent ages of retirement prevailing in the several services in India.
In the Workmen case itself this Court did not extend the benefit of super annuation at the age of 60 to all clerical staff but limited the same to that category of employees working in the Refin ery Division Bombay.
This decision has no relevance to the present case although the High Court has relied on it in deciding this case.
The regulations and other provisions as in force immediately before the commencement of the Life Insurance Corporation Amendment Act 1981 with respect to the terms and conditions of service of employees and agents of the Corporation including those who became employees and agents of the Corpo ration on the appointed day under this Act shall be deemed to be rules made under clause cc of sub section 2 and shall subject to the other provisions of this section have effect accordingly underlining by us empha sis supplied Clause cc of section 482 of the Act however has been given retrospective effect from 20th June 1979.
So long employees are in Class III they can be said to constitute two different classes of transferred and direct appointees but once they are promoted they become similarly situated and the dis tinction stands obliterated.
217 In OP No 5295 of 1985 and connected cases on the file of the High Court of Kerala which was decided on 42.
The High Court has negatived it.
In Dr Nikhil Bhushan Chandra vs Union of India  Ors Civil Order 218 No 13958 W of 1980 decided on December 21 1982 the High Court of Calcutta has rejected a similar claim.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
On the absorption of the services of the servants of the previous railway companies it became necessary for the Indian Railway Administration to frame rules with regard to their conditions of service including the determination of the age of retirement of those railway employees.
Accordingly rule 2046 FR 56 of the Indian Railway Fundamental Rules had to be modified.
Clause b however provided that every ministerial railway serv ant who had entered the Government service on or before 31st March 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned either in sub clause i or sub clause ii thereof was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years.
The Re spondent A Pitchumani questioned before the High Court of Mysore Karnataka the validity of the note substituted by the Order dated December 23 1967 which took away his right to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years which he otherwise possessed before the introduction of the said note.
The High Court of Mysore struck down a part of the new note only on the ground that it was discriminatory and directed that the Respondent A Pitchumani should be allowed to continue in the service till he completed the age of 60 years.
AIR 1973 CAL.
vs Union of India  Ors etc.
It may be so.
Under Article 32 this Court is the constitutional sentinel not the national ombudsman.
