The period of leave and licence was to commence from 1st of September 1965 to 31st of August 1970 and it was further submitted that the licensee and the licensor shall not terminate the said agreement earlier save and except on the ground of breach of any of the terms and conditions written therein.
If he was such a licensee the non obstante clause of section 15A1 give him the status and protection of a tenant in spite of there being anything to the contrary in any other law or in contract.
It was futher held that a person continuing in occupation of such premises after revocation of the licence was still liable to pay compensation or damages for its use and occupation.
It was further held that filing an application under section 41 of the 1065 might in certain circumstances have the effect of putting an end to the licence if it was subsisting on the date of its filing.
It was further held that it was right that the Court should act in consonance with the spirit of the Maharashtra Amending Act 17 of 1973 but the Court cannot and should not cast the law to the winds or twist or stretch it to a breaking point amounting to almost an absurdity.
It was observed that the finding of the High Court that the respondent was in occupation of the premises under a subsisting licence was wholly wrong and suffered from serious infirmities of law and fact and deserved to be set aside.
The High Court disallowed the special civil application under Article 227 of the Constitution on 17th of November 1980 and that is the judgment impugned in this appeal.
The learned Judge rejected the contention of the appellant that he was a tenant and having found that the period of licence had come to an end he passed an order of eviction against the appellant.
A lease involves a transfer of an interest in land Subba Rao J as the learned Chief Justice then was observed in that case.
Somervell LJ had observed .
Our attention was drawn to a decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of Sohanlal Naraindas vs Laxmidas Raghunath Gadit 68 Bombay Law Reporter 400 where Tarkunde J Observed that the intention of the parties and exclusive possession were important elements.
Reliance was also placed on the observations of Krishna Iyer J in the decision of Qudrat Ullah vs Municipal Board Bareilly  where at page 533 of the report Krishna Iyer J Observed that there is no simple litmus test to distinguish a lease as defined in section 105 from licence as defined in section 52 of the Easements Act but the character of the transaction turns on the operative intent of the parties.
To put precisely if an interest in immovable property entitling the transferee to enjoyment was created it was a lease if permission to use land without exclusive possession was alone granted a licence was the legal result.
It permitted user only for 20 hours.
This is a salutary test.
This Court in Venkatlal G Pittie  Anr.
The appeal fails and is dismissed.
