Civil Appeal No 1709 of 1988.
T 1055 of 1986.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K JAGANNATHA SHETTY J.
The civil appeal by speci al leave and the connected SLP raise an important issue as to the power of the Central Administration Tribun al Tribunal to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded by the competent authority to a Government servant in discipl i nary proceedings.
He was incharge of preparing the pay bills and other bills of the work charg ed employees of the project.
It was alleged that he maSte r minded and prepared the pay roll pertaining to T  Token of Central Survey Division Sundernagar for the month of M ay 1969 and entered the name of one Shri Ashok Kumar Token N o 59 T at serial No 10 on page 2 of the relevant pay roll.
While Suraj Singh by impersonation was receiving the pay of Ashok Kumar he was recognised by the Cashier since he kn ew him personally.
The Inquiry Officer framed charge against the responde nt in the following terms That the said Shri Parma Nand while working as Time Keeper in Time Keeping Sub Division of Beas Sutlej Li nk Project Sundernagar during the month of May 1969 failed to maintain absolute integrity and devotion to duty in as mu ch as he falsely marked the attendance of Shri Ashok Kuma r Token No 59 T in the Pay Roll of Control Survey Divisi on for the month of May 1969 which resulted in fictitio us drawal of Rs238 90 as pay of the said Shri Ashok Kumar.
Consequentl y the said writ petition stood transferred to the Tribunal by operation of section 29 of that Act.
The Tribunal observed Since the applicant had.
 It was also observed that there was no denial of a reasonable opportunity for the respondent to set up prop er defence.
In the intere st of 25 justice it is necessary to modify the punishment awarded to the applicant.
The Tribunal however h as held that the respondent was guilty of entering the name of Ashok Kumar in the pay roll of May 4969.
Section 27 provides for execution of orders.
Mr Ashri learned counsel for t he respondent however justified the discretion exercised by the Tribunal in awarding the lesser punishment.
Court to consid er whether that ground alone would have weighed with the a u thority dismissing the public servant.
Shah J observed  at 665 666    in our view the High Court had no pow er to direct the Governor of Orissa to reconsider the order of dismissal.
Where the person without enquiry is di s missed removed or reduced in rank solely on the basis of conviction by a criminal court the Tribunal may examine t he adequacy of the penalty imposed in the light of the convi c tion and sentence inflicted on the person.
If the penal ty impugned is apparently unreasonable or uncalled for havi ng regard to the nature of the criminal charge the Tribun al may step in to render substantial justice.
Any sympathy or charitable view on such officials wi ll not be conducive to keep the streams of administration pu re which is so vital for the success of our democrary.
In the circumstances of the case howeve r we make no order as to costs.
