Apart from giving training the Corporation also ensures marketing support to the artisans and craftsmen by purchasing their products at remunerative prices and sell them through the marketing network of the Corporation.
Article 14 permits reasonable classification rounded on rational basis.
Apart from that the Court has expressly observed that the higher pay scale to avoid stagnation or resultant frustration for lack of promotional avenues may also be allowed.
There the petitioner was a Hearing Therapist in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.
His case was based on the allegations that he was discharging same duties and performing similar functions as Senior Speech Therapist Senior Physiotherapist Senior Occupa tional Therapist Audiologist and Speech Pathologist.
But the Court held that the principle of equal pay for equal work cannot be invoked invariably in every kind of service particularly in the area of professional services.
If the classification has reasonable nexus with the objective sought to be achieved efficiency in the administration the State would be justified in prescribing different pay scales.
In the light of the aforesaid principles we may now consider whether the equality claims of the petitioners could be allowed.
We have carefully perused the material on record and gave our anxious consideration to the question urged.
In the first place even assum ing that the petitioners  jobs are comparable with the counterparts in the government service the petitioners cannot enforce the right to equal pay for equal work.
The discrimination complained of must be within the same estab lishment owned by the same management.
The accuracy required by the job and the dexterity it entails may differ from job to job.
The principal claim of the petitioners therefore fails and is rejected.
The next contention that the petitioners should be paid at least the minimum wages prescribed by the Deputy Commis sioner under Exhibit P 2 dated March 20 1986 cannot also be accepted.
