Collector.
Section 3 of the Act provides that there shall be levied and collected in such manner as maybe pre scribed duties of excise on all excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India Excisable goods under section 2d of the Act means goods specified in the Schedule to the as being subject to duty of excise and includes salt.
Explanation.
365 367 of the Report.
The use of the expression cost could not obviously be by way of reference to packing for which the cost is incurred by the buyer.
Therefore it was held that the value of the excisable article has to be computed with reference to the price charged by the manufacturer the computation being made in accordance with the terms of section 4.
AN Sen J who agreed with Pathak J observed that on a proper construction of section 44di it was clear that any secondary packing done for the purpose of facilitating transport and smooth transit of the goods to be delivered to the buyer in the wholesale trade could not be included in the value for the purpose of assessment of excise duty.
Chief Justice Bhag wati on the other hand held that corrugated fibreboard containers in which the cigarettes were contained fell within the definition of packing  in the Explanation to section 44di and if these formed part of the packing in which the goods were packed when delivered at the time of removal then under section 44di read with the Expla nation the cost of such corrugated fibreboard containers would be liable to be included in the value of cigarettes.
If they are generally sold in the wholesale market at the factory gate in a certain packed condition whatever may be the reason for such packing the cost of such packing would be includible in the value of the goods for assessment to excise duty.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd supra dealing with the aspect of secondary packing where this Court reiterated that the degree of secondary packing which is necessary for putting the excisable article in which it is sold in the wholesale market at the factory was the degree of packing where the cost would be included in the value of the goods for the purpose of excise duty.
There was evidence that 90 of the goods were deliv ered at the time of removal without being put in drums.
There was no evidence that there was any necessity of pack ing or putting these in drums prior to their sale.
The manufac ture of the goods was complete before these were placed in drums.
In the case of styrene monomer the finding is that the supply is in tankers to the extent of 90 and only 10 of the sales were made in drums.
In 10 of the sales the vehicle of removal was drums.
If on the other hand the manufacturer asks the customer to bring his own container and does not charge anything therefore then the cost or value of the packing cannot be notionally added to or subtracted from the price at which the goods have been sold by the manufacturer.
