The appellant had taken food in the canteen for two days and being dissatisfied discontinued the practice before the notice was issued.
was guilty.
It was also urged that the appellant being new in the office could exert little influence on the Principal and the whole story is therefore improbable.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 41 of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
The High Court thought that though the conviction under section 161 IPC and section 52 of the Prevention of Corruption Act is to be maintained no separate sentence need be award ed under section 161 IPC.
The appellant has reiterated the contentions before us.
The learned counsel appearing for the appellant however maintained that the appellant had a consistent case even from the earliest opportunity that the currency notes found in his possession was the money returned by PW 1 the cir cumstances of the case would probabalise this case of the appellant and the presumption if any arising under section 4 is rebutted and the conviction cannot therefore be sus tained.
PW 3 the Principal has averred in unequivocal terms that Ex.
The order made was not disclosed to PW 1 and till 22101975 the file itself was kept by the appellant in his personal custody.
This conduct of the appellant is clearly incon sistent with the transaction of loan or return of money by PW 1 338 This Court observed in Dhanvantrai Balwantrai Desai vs State of Maharashtra AIR 1964 SC 575 as under Where any gratification other than legal gratification or any valuable thing is proved to have been received by an accused person the court is required to draw a presumption that the person received that thing as a motive of reward such as is mentioned in section 161 IPC Therefore the Court has no choice in the matter once it is established that the accused person has received a sum of money which was not due to him as a legal remuneration.
The burden resting on the accused person in such a case would not be as light as it is where a presumption is raised under section 114 of Evidence Act and cannot be held to be discharged merely by reason of the fact that the explanation offered by the accused is reasonable and probable.
We find no merit in the appeal.
It is accordingly dismissed.
