1947 relating to Door No 3 Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint covered an area of 8700 sq.
The present appeal by Special Leave granted on 37.
The Division Bench observed   .
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 102vii of the Act read with the proviso to section 101 and the Court s observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
Under Rule 122 he is required to decide applications by recording a brief note of the evidence of parties and 561 witnesses and decide matters after giving the parties an opportunity to state their case more or less in the manner in which a Court of Small Causes decides cases before it.
We think that this contention is well founded.
Sri Krish namurthy Iyer is therefore certainly right in contending that the Act requires the Rent Controller to consider this issue among others while disposing the applications before him.
vs Musunuru Venkayya and Ors.
Can it possibly be said that the finding of the revenue court on the issue of adop tion is binding on the parties in a subsequent suit in a civil court in which the validity of the adoption might fall to be decided There can be no doubt about the answer.
The correctness of that finding may be questioned in any subsequent legal proceeding in the ordinary courts of the land where the question might arise for decision.
However if the property is an inam village whether the inam village is an inam estate is within his exclusive jurisdiction and in regard to it the jurisdic tion of the Civil Courts is clearly barred.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
The order was confirmed by the first appel late court and on furher appeal by the High Court.
The Supreme Court however reversed the judgment of the High Court.
These documents were executed on January 7 1953 but the respondent contin ued in the possession of the house property throughout.
The High Court held that the sale deed and rent note were sham documents that the decrees of the Court of Small Causes did not operate as res judicata and that section 92 of the Indian Evidence Act did not preclude the respondent from establishing the true nature of the transac tion.
Section 973 of the Amendment Act declares that the new provi sion applies to pending suits proceeding appeals and applica tions.
vs Smt.
The necessary condition for exercise of jurisdiction by the Rent Controller is the existence of relationship of landlord and tenant.
The plaintiff thereupon filed a suit for a declaration of as title and right to continue in possession and enjoyment of the suit land subject to payment of ryot wari or other cess to be imposed by Government without any interference from the Government.
We are concerned with the jurisdiction of a civil court.
Section 4 of the Rent Control Act as already pointed out provides only a machin ery for fixation of fair rent in respect of certain prem ises.
It is the quantum of fair rent that arises for deter mination by the Rent Controller.
In our opinion on a proper construction of the Rent Control Act the question on which the jurisdiction of the civil court is excluded is only the determination as to the fair rent of the premises.
