The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATHAN J.
1.
The writ petitions have been filed directly in this Court in view of a learned single Judge of the High Court having decided the issue against the assessees as early as 2511.
Section 2e a Originally section 2e defined export  to mean the taking out of goods from the State to any place outside it otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce.
 b Act 44 of 1976 added at the end of the above definition the following words wef.
 b Act 13 of 1989 amended the Explanation by inserting in it after the words section 9 the words or section 24.
1983 which reads 6 The purchase of barley or of goods used in the manufac ture of guar gum scientific goods utensils and metal handicrafts shall not form part of the turnover of a dealer for the period he is entitled to purchase the goods on the authority of his certificate of registration without payment of sales tax under section 24 provided these are used exclusively for the specified purposes.
Section 6 Section 6 the charging section read as under 6.
2 Every dealer to whom sub section 1 does not apply shall subject to other provisions of this Act be liable to pay tax under this Act on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Provided further that  .
b section 6 was amended by Act I of 1990 to read as follows with retrospective effect from 275.
1971 section 6 Incidence of taxation 1 Every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the coming into force of the provisions of this section exceeded the taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of the provi sions of this section.
Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Provided further that  .
c Act 11 of 1979 redrafted the above provision ex cluded milk from clause b and added clause c.
The State Government had issued a notification dated 19774 even before the 1976 amendment clarifying the position with an answer to the question in the affirmative but this notification as well as the interpretation favoured by it were quashed by a decision of the High Court reported as Goodyear India Ltd vs State 1982 53 STC 163.
352 The proviso added was in the following terms Provided that no tax shall be leviable under this section on scientific goods and guar gum manufactured in the State and sold by him in the course of export outside the territo ry of India within the meaning of sub section 3 of section 5 of the  e Act 11 of 1984 effected no material change.
These provisions read thus.
355 c Act 11 of 1984 changed the marginal heading of the section as Rights and liabilities of registered dealers.
Validation provision Act 1 of 1990 effected no amendments to section 24 or 27.
It reads 14.
Sri Rajaram Agarwal learned counsel for the assessees contended that the effect of section 53 of the CST Act is to expand the scope of section 51 and include within the concept of sales in the course of export outside India also the penultimate  sales dealt with in Mohd Sirafuddin s case supra A reference to and the meaning of section 51 cannot be understood without a reference to section 53.
As a result of section 53 such penultimate sales become export sales falling beyond the purview and competence of State legislatures.
The provisions in section 91 of the Act need to be interpreted harmoniously and consistently with the con stitutional scheme.
If due regard be given to these words he pointed out the assessees would be entitled to an exemption from the impugned purchase tax only if their sales 360 were export sales within the meaning of section 51 of the CST Act which they admittedly were not.
As pointed out by Sri Agarwal even in Mohd Sirajuddin s case supra although the exemption claimed for the sales as export sales was denied the conclusion of the High Court that the sales to STC were inter State sales chargeable under section 51 of the CST Act was upheld.
