In Appeal No 260 58 a further question arose whether in the case of 259 that assessee the year ending June 30 1949 was the previous year for the assessment year 1950 51 with the result that it should be assessed under the Indian Income tax Act of 1922.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 321 and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act hereinafter called the Travancore Act.
At the instance of the Commissioner of Income tax the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin Is the aforesaid sum of Rs 79275 a loss of the assessee arising outside the Travancore State for purpose of the first proviso to section 321 of the Travancore Income tax Act   This question was slightly modified by the High Court 260 which after referring to several decided cases answered the question in favour of the assessee.
In C A 26058 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
On an application of the assessee the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the loss of Rs 27709 arising in Cochin State could be set off against the profit of Rs 38998 arising in Travancore State   and was answered in favour of the assessee.
Ordinarily the effect of an excepting or a qualifying proviso is to carve something out of the preceding enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be in it and such a proviso cannot be construed as enlarging the scope of an enactment when it can be fairly and properly construed without attributing to it that effect.
2  258.
This Court in Anglo French Textiles Co Ltd vs Commissioner of Incometax Madras 1 again emphasised that distinction in the following words  Next a set off under section 241 can only be claimed when the loss arises under one head and the profits against which it is sought to be set off arises under a different head.
Therefore it is to be construed harmoniously with the main enactment Per Das C J in Abdul Jabar Butt vs State of Jammu  Kashmir 1.
3 1944 LR 71 IA 113 122.
268 off except against profits and gains accruing or arising in an Indian State from the same business profession or vocation and exempt from tax under the said provisions .
It is significant that in sections 213 and 5 of the Indian Act of 1918 corresponding to sections 215 and 6 of the Indian Act of 1922 the word used was income  which in the latter Act was expanded into  income profits and gains .
Thus the mere use of the words loss of profits or gains to be set off against profits and gains would not be sufficient to restrict the scope of the proviso to the profits and losses arising under the head business in the two territories i e British India and the Indian States.
On behalf of the Revenue an alternate argument was raised for which support was sought from two decisions of the Allahabad High Court in In Re Mishrimal Gulabchand 4 and Raghunath Parshad vs Commissioner of Income tax 5.
31901 AC 26.
In the course of argument a number of cases of the various High Courts were cited and criticised.
