August 14.
The appellant promptly filed writ petition No 1 of 1956 praying for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the State of Andhra Pradesh to forbear from terminating his leasehold right in the slate quarries.
The Abolition Act was enacted by the Madras Legislature in exercise of the legislative power con ferred on it by the Government of India Act 1935.
Under that sub section a person can claim compensation only when his right is terminated by the Government under the foregoing proviso.
2 which provide for compensation will not be attracted.
The argument is that the second proviso is merely declaratory and the third proviso supplies the machinery for giving effect to the provisions of the second proviso.
The implications of the second proviso learned counsel for the appellant points out are two fold namely a that all rights created before the notified date but after July 1 1945 for a period not exceeding one year would be valid and enforceable both by and against the Government by the operation of the body of sub section.
The provision of section 20 of the Abolition Act has been considered and construed by a Bench of the Madras High Court.
If the third proviso also applies to such leases as the petitioners contend then the lease can be terminated only if the Government is satisfied that it is in the public interest that it should be terminated and that further in such cases the lessee will also be entitled to compensation under section 202.
The true effect of the section can be stated in three proposi tions i Rights validly created prior to 1st July 1945 will be valid ii such rights however may be determined under the third proviso if it is in the public interest to do so and in such cases compensation will be payable under section 202 and iii rights created after 1st July 1945 if they are for a period exceeding one year are liable to be avoided under the second proviso.
 We do not think that the rule in any way impairs the correctness of the Madras decision.
There is no warrant for saying that the avoidance must be under the terms of the third proviso.
The second proviso makes rights created after July 1 1945 unenforceable as against the Government.
The reason for conferment of such an unconditional right on the Government is well known for it was on that crucial date that the party which came into power later declared its intention to abolish all zemindaries and intermediary interest in land.
That  rule provides that a mining lease granted by a private person shall be subject to certain conditions therein specified.
No other point has been urged before us and for reasons stated above we think that these appeals should be dismissed with costs and we order accordingly.
