this appeal is by special leave against the judgment and decree of the high court of kerala which dismissed an appeal against the judgment and decree of the subordinate court of havelikkara.
it has alleged in the plaint that the plaintiff appellant was wrongfully dispossessed from 160 acres of land along with the improvements which had been effected by him and as the state had appropriated those improvements without any right or title thereto he claimed the value of those improvements.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
it is the case of the appellant that even after the act was passed unauthorised occupants of land belonging to the government who had made improvements therein had under the rules made both under the act and the land assignment act a preferential claim over others for getting kuthakapattom or assignment of the property in their possession.
it may be mentioned that in respect of the 160 acres of land of the illom which were occupied by the appellant s father and the appellant there was a dispute between the illom and the travancore state from about 1848.
while this dispute was pending it appears the appellant applied to the conservator of forests for registration of the lands in his name but the application was rejected on june 14 1919 stating that the land applied for can not be registered ext.
a while the application for registration was pending the dispute between the illom and the state of travancore had reached a stage when the illom had to institute a suit o section No.
126 of 1096.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
in that suit the appellant after his application for registration was rejected sought to get himself impleaded but that application also was rejected.
thereafter the suit filed by the illom was dismissed on 28 6 1109 february 10 1934.
an appeal against it was dismissed on september 27 1943.
in that suit an injunction was prayed for in respect of 100 acres of the property involved in the suit but the prayer was rejected.
against that order a civil miscellaneous appeal No 206 of 1110 m e 1934 35 a d was filed in the high court of travancore.
the high court issued a commission for inspecting the properties and the commissioner in his report part 13 of ext.
the appellant pursuant to this order was dispossessed from the lands and possession of these lands was given to the second defendant nair service society ltd in august 1939.
thereafter the suit out of which this appeal arises was filed against the government on october 24 1942.
the respondent state contended that the appellant encroached on the suit lands that proceedings were taken against him in l c case.
112 of 1100 m e and the appellant was therefore not entitled to claim any value for improvements as it was his duty to remove any building before he was evicted.
the respondent also averred that it had not taken possession of any crops or movables as stated in the plaint and that the movables found in the building were attached for the realisation of arrears of fine etc.
several issues were framed but it is not necessary to refer to them except to say that the suit was decreed only for rs 3000 being the value of the appellant s bungalow taken possession of by the respondent.
the rest of the claim was dismissed.
the trial court also held that all through these long years there had been a dispute as to the title between the illom and the state and after the suit of the illom was dismissed and the illom s title was not sustained the allegation that the improvements were effected can not be stated to be bona fide.
it pointed out that the plaintiff appellant had applied to get himself impleaded on 0 s No 126 of 1096 m e but his application was rejected and after that suit was dismissed the appellant again applied for registry but that was also rejected.
with respect to the allegation that an order of forfeiture was not served on the appellant under section 9 of the act the court observed that though the state had in its written statement contended that such an order had been passed no order was produced in evidence and consequently it was conceded by the government pleader that no such order was passed.
in the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
on this issue it was held that no notice of forfeiture of trees.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
accordingly the high court found that at no time the occupation of the land by the appellant was under a bona fide claim of title.
the contention of the appellant that the trees which are the subject matter of the appeal should have been forfeited by an order passed under section 9 of the act and in the absence of such.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
appellant be allowed to remove them after his dispossession.
another reason for disallowing the compensation for trees given by the high court was that the position of a trespasser whether he be a mere trespasser or a trespasser under a bona fide claim of title cannot be better than that of a tenant and that if this is correct then the appeal has to be dismissed on the short ground that there is no principle of law or equity which requires the payment of compensation in respect of trees the ownership of which was all along or at any rate from the dale of the trespasser s dispossession vested in the state.
from the lands from which he was evicted he would be entitled to claim compensation for the improvements made by him.
a and also to the fact that after the application for registration was rejected the appellant tried to get himself impleaded in the suit filed by the illom against the state which application was also rejected and so the claim that his possession was bona fide or that he was a bona fide trespasser has no validity.
registration in his name on the basis that it was government land.
yield income receipts return.
