they served a charter of demands in july1974on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the state government made a reference of the dispute under s 101 dindustrial tribunal maharashtra for adjudication.
the union filed a statement before the tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
it was urged that the efficiency bar as a feature of the wage scales should be removed.
the dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
the claim of the union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the union were accepted.
the appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
dearness allowance became payable at 10 of the basic wage subject to a minimum of rs 50 and house rent allowance at 30 of the basic salary.
nothing those facts the tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
the need for revising the wage scales was not disputed by the appellant.
in proceeding to revise the wage structure the tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
in the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force the extent of their business the financial position for some years the capital invested the precise nature of the business the position regarding reserves dividends declared and future prospects of the company the tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns.
the union modified its demands but even the modified terms according to the tribunal appeared to be on the high side inasmuch as the resulting total burden of rs 1 70 crores was much higher than the average profits could sustain.
the particular character of the appellant that it was a service industry and not a manufacturing concern was taken into account and it was observed that unlike a manufacturing business there was little scope for diversification in the case of an engineering consultancy.
nonetheless the tribunal observed there was every reason to expect that the appellant would be able to earn sound profits in the future and the instability in its business activities occasioned by the turbulent political situation in iran would be it was expected compensated by contracts secured in different developing countries.
it decided also that there was no ground for deducting the notional value of gratuity.
the tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
but it rejected the demand of the union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant s financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
taking into account the circumstance that besides the staff of 306 workmen represented by the union there were several other employees who would also have to be paid the tribunal considered it fair in paragraph 23 of the award to give a flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draughtsmen and rs 100 in the case of other categories.
it rejected the demand of the union for abolishing the efficiency bar but the span of 15 years for earning increment was expanded in some grades to 20 years and some adjustments were also made in specific grades.
the tribunal also noted that after the salaries of the employees had been fixed in the respective scales senior employees would have to be given some more increments in the new scales according to their completed years of service.
taking all these factors into consideration it made an award dated 20th december1978 prescribing the following revision in the existing scales of wages.
the tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
the revised wage scales the tribunal directed should take effect retrospectively from 1st january1976 it also laid down the principle enabling the actual fitment of the workmen in their respective wage scales as on that date and also provided for the number of increments to which they would be entitled having regard to the period of completed service.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
the union prayed that the position may be clarified and the award corrected accordingly.
on the same date the tribunal disposed of the application by the following order there can be no doubt that a flat increase of rs 150 to each of the employees in the category of draftsmen and of rs 100 to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
considering the appeal of tata consulting engineers first the contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that having regard to the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal erred in making the wage scales retrospective and in any event in ranging the retrospectivity back to 1st january1976.
accordingly the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
it is urged that the amendment results in the inclusion of a flat increase of rs 150 to each workman in the case of draughtsman and rs 100 to each workman in the case of other categories a result wholly unwarranted it is said by the intent of the original award and therefore falling beyond the jurisdiction of the tribunal.
tribunal under rule 31 of the industrial disputes bombay rules1957 rule 31 provides the labour court tribunal or arbitrator may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any award it or he issues.
the sufficiency of the existing pay scales was considered in detail and regard was had to their original structure and the accretions made subsequently by way of dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
for the purpose of restructuring the pay scales the tribunal ruled on the paying capacity of the appellant both with reference to the profits of the preceding year as well as the prospects of the future.
considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
