hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
the appellant claimed to be the tenant in respect of the two premises which are quite adjacent to each other one of which is involved in this appeal.
the respondent is the landlord of the two premises and these were situated at raikhad ward ahmedabad.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works.
the respondent had further alleged that the appellant no 1 had closed the business and he was not using the said premises for the purpose for which it was let to him.
it was the case of the appellant that in respect of the suit premises he was carrying on his business with respondents.
nos 24 and 5 in the name of respondent no 2m s.
bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
we are concerned in this appeal with only one of the premises which was involved in suit no 553 of 1969 it is not in dispute and it never was that the premises was being used by bharat neon signs firm being the defendant no 2 in the original suit.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
the present appellant who was the original defendant no 1 claimed to be a partner.
the main controversy was whether the appellant had sublet the premises to defendant no 2bharat neon signs or whether he being a partner of the said firm had permitted the said firm to use the premises in question.
it is clear from the evidence on record that the partnership firm had undergone metamorphosis from time to time and again ever since the year 1960 the firm bharat neon signs first originated on 4th of october1960 as many as six persons were named in the partnership firm on or about 4th of october1960 and they had executed a deed of partnership on 13th of october1960 which is exhibit 114 on the record.
however the document is silent as to where the business was started.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
september1961 at this time the share of the appellant was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee to share the profits only.
in 1965 some partners retired and the remaining four partners executed a fresh partnership deed exhibit 117 on 1st.
april1965 this last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants.
the main question in issue in this appeal as well as before the high court in revision was whether there was a genuine partnership at the appellant was a partner.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
it is well settled that if there was such a partnership firm of which the appellant was a partner as a tenant the same would not amount to subletting leading to the forfeiture of the tenancy.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
it accordingly decreed the suit for possession instituted by the landlord.
the suit inter alia was filed by the landlord on the ground of subletting.
there was an appeal before the court of small causes bombay and by judgment and order delivered by the court of small causes bombay on 18th of august1977it was held that the learned trial judge had erred in passing a decree for possession on the ground of subletting change of user and breach of terms of tenancy.
in the premises the appeal was allowed.
the landlord had alleged that the appellant had closed that business and he was not using the premises in question for the purpose for which it was let to him.
it was further alleged that the appellant had also unlawfully sublet one room of the suit premises to defendant no 6 in suit no 553 of 1969 who was residing in that room.
for the purpose of the suit no 553 of 1969 with which the appeal is concerned it is relevant to state that the appellant had raised the contention that ahmedabad fine weaving works was not the tenant of the suit premies but the suit premises was tenanted by the father of the appellant girdharlal chimalal in 1938 and he was the original tenant of the premises and appellant subsequently joined the business of his father as a partner and the name of the partnership firm was ahmedabad fine weaving works.
there was an appeal filed from that decree and that appeal was also dismissed and disposed of affirming the decree for the dissolution of the partnership inter se between the parties being the partners of the said firm.
as mentioned hereinbefore the learned trial judge consolidated both the suits and in the instant suit being no 553 of 1969 with which this appeal is concerned it was held by the learned trial judge that there was unlawful subletting.
the appellate court so far as the material for the present appeal is concerned held that there was no subletting and there was only carrying on of the business in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 in the name of bharat neon signs.
therefore the first question that had to be decided by the appellate court being the court of small causes bombay and if a revision lay before the high court was whether there was any genuine partnership.
the partnership deeds were there the appellant was not to share in the losses.
the high court in revision reversed that finding.
that has to be found in section 4 of the indian partnership act1932it says partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all emphasis supplied.
the agreement must be to share profits of business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
it is true that in the partnership deeds the bank accounts were not to be operated by the appellant and further that irrespective of the profit.
the clause of the partnership deed provided that there should be a fixed percentage of profit to be given to the partner appellant no 1 the appellant was not to share the losses.
the appellate court had considered the partnership deeds.
therefore it was emphasised that there was a gap of time when there was user by the partnership firm of the premises in question when the appellant was not a member of the firm.
therefore it was submitted that the court of small causes committed an error of law resulting in miscarriage of justice.
it was submitted by mr mehta that once it was accepted that the partnership deed was a mere camouflage the other subsequent acts and conducts were merely ancillary and were put in a formal way.
there was evidence of suit of dissolution of the partnership where none of the partners took the plea that it was a false or a fictitious document.
that in the partnership deed which is not necessary to recite the terms the petitioner was completely excluded in operating the bank accounts etc.
appeal allowed.
appeal allowed.
