it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
in this group of cases we are faced with a different problem of alleged exploitation by big manufacturers of bulk drugs.
the problem is that of high prices bearing it is said little relation to the cost of production to the manufacturers.
barlagan ketone a bulk drug was not treated as an essential bulk drug under the drugs prices control.
a manufacturer was under the provisions of that order free to continue to sell the drug at the price reported by him to the central government at the time of the commencement of the order but was under an obligation not to increase the price without the prior approval of the central government.
the price which the manufacturer of barlagan kotone reported to the central government in 1971 was rs 24735 68 per kg.
order came into force the distinction between essential and non essential bulk drugs was abolished and a maximum price had to be fixed for barlagan ketone also like other bulk drugs.
profiteering by itself is evil.
profiteering in the scarce resources of the community much needed life sustaining food stuffs and lifesaving drugs is diabolic.
one of the principal objectives of the essential commodities act 1955 is precisely that.
t must be remembered that article 39b enjoins a duty on the state towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.
the essential commodities act is a legislation towards that end.
it is in pursuance of the powers granted to the central government by the essential commodities act that first the drugs prices control.
armed with authority under the drugs prices control.
these notifications were questioned on several grounds by the manufacturers and they have been quashed by the delhi high court on the ground of failure to observe the principles of natural justice.
since prices of formulations are primarily dependent on prices of buli drugs the notifications fixing the retail prices of formulations were also quashed.
the manufacturers had also filed review petitions before the government under paragraph 27 of the 1979 order.
the review petitions could not survive after the notifications sought to be reviewed had themselves been quashed.
nevertheless the high court gave detailed directions regarding the manner of disposal of the review petitions by the high court.
the union of india has preferred these appeals by special leave of this court against the judgment of the high court.
the case for the union of india was presented to us ably by shri g ramaswami the learned additional solicitor general and the manufacturers were represented equally ably by shri anil diwan.
the assembling of the raw materials and the mechanics of price fixation are the concern of the executive and we leave it to them.
the court will of course examine if there is any hostile discrimination.
that is a different cup of tea altogether.
in the case of parliamentary legislation the proposition is self evident.
in the case of subordinate legislation it may happen that parliament may itself provide for a notice and for a hearing there are several instances of the legislature requiring the subordinate legislating authority to give public notice and a public hearing before say for example levying a municipal rate  in which case the substantial non observance of the statutorily prescribed mode of observing natural justice may have the effect of invalidating the subordinate legislation.
the right here given to rate payers or others is in the nature of a concession which is not to detract from the character of the activity as legislative and not quasijudicial.
but where the legislature has not chosen to provide for any notice or hearing no one can insist upon it and it will not be permissible to read natural justice into such legislative activity.
in such a situation while such enquiry by the subordinate legislating body as it deems fit is a condition precedent to the subordinate legislation the nature and the extent of the enquiry is in the discretion of the subordinate legislating body and the subordinate legislation is not open to question on the ground that the enquiry was not as full as it might have been.
it is true that with the proliferation of delegated legislation there is a tendency for the line between legislation and administration to vanish into an illusion.
administrative quasi judicial decisions tend to merge in legislative activity and conversely legislative activity tends to fade into and present an appearance of an administrative or quasi judicial activity.
the distinction between the two has usually been expressed as one between the general and the particular.
a legislative act is the creation and promulgation of a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases an administrative act is the making and issue of a specific direction or the application of a general rule to a particular case in accordance with the requirements of policy.
legislation is the process of formulating a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases and usually operating in future administration is the process of performing particular acts of issuing particular orders or of making decisions which apply general rules to particular cases.
the object of the rule the reach of its application the rights and obligations arising out of it its intended effect on past present and future events its form the manner of its promulgation are some factors which may help in drawing the line between legislative and non legislative acts.
the right of the citizen to obtain essential articles at fair prices and the duty of the state to so provide them are transformed into the power of the state to fix prices and the obligation of the producer to charge n6 more than the price fixed.
viewed from whatever angle the angle of general application the prospectivity of its effect the public interest served and the rights and obligations flowing therefrom there can be no question that price fixation is ordinarily a legislative activity.
otherwise price fixation is generally a legislative activity.
1 scc 468 1973 indlaw sc 291 a notification fixing the ex factory price of certain counts of cotton yarn was questioned on the ground that the price had been arbitrarily fixed.
the cost of production a reasonable return to the producer of the commodity are to be taken into account.
the producer must have an incentive to produce.
the fair price must be fair not only from the point of view of the consumer but also from the point of view of the producer.
in fixing the prices a price line has to be held in order to give preference or pre dominant consideration to the interest of the consumer or the general public over that of the producers in respect of essential commodities.
the producer should not be driven out of his producing business.
there is no justification that the producer should be given the benefit of price increase attributable to hoarding or cornering or artificial short supply.
the cases of panipat sugar mills and anakapalle co operative agricultural society were distinguished on the ground that they were governed by sub section 3c of sec.
reasonableness for purposes of judging whether there was an excess of power or an arbitrary exercise of it is really the demonstration of a reasonable nexus between the matters which are taken into account in exercising a power and the purposes of exercise of that power.
it was also reiterated that the decision in shree meenakshi mills case was based on a special agreement between the parties and therefore had no relevance to the question before them.
chandrachud j speaking for the court approved the observation of beg cj.
that it was enough compliance with the constitutional mandate if the basis adopted for price fixation was not shown to be so patently unreasonable as to be in excess of the power to fix the price.
he also reaffirmed the proposition that price fixation was in the nature of a legislative measure and could not give rise to a complaint that natural justice was not observed.
its validity does not depend on the observance of any procedure to be complied with or particular types of evidence to be taken on any specified matters as conditions precedent to its validity.
it provides that in calculating the amount to be paid for the commodity required to be sold regard is to be had to  a the minimum price if any fixed for sugarcane by the central government under this section b the manufacturing cost of sugar c the duty or tax if any paid or payable thereon and d the securing of a reasonable return on the capital employed in the business of manufacturing sugar.
the legislative character of the activity is not shed and an administrative or quasi judicial character acquired merely because guidelines prescribed by the statutory order have to be taken into account.
the element of applicability has been emphasized by others as the key in differentiating legislative from judicial functions.
he was required to report this price to the central government within two weeks of the commencement of the order and was further prohibited from increasing the price without obtaining the approval of the central government.
