leave granted.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
respondent no 1 thereafter filed a suit in the delhi high court for grant of a decree of permanent injunction being suit no 2408 of 1985 alleging infringement of the said mark andor claiming right of passing off in respect thereof.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
indisputably first respondent filed an application under section 4656 and 107 of the act marked as c o no 9 of 1986contending that m s jain industries having not used the trade mark in respect of centrifugal pumps for a period more than five years and one month the mark should be taken off the register.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
indisputably appellant filed an application in form tm 24 on 17 6 1986 the assistant registrar trade marks passed an order on 10 11 1986 certifying that the trade mark field marshal brand word per se is registered under no 228867 in part a of the register as of the date 13th.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
the registration of the aforesaid trade mark has been renewed from time to time and will remain in force for a period of a seven years from 13th.
appellant s counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
the petition is accordingly filed as withdrawn leaving the parties to bear their own costs.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
by an order dated 19 1 1988having regard to the provisions contained in the said act the learned judge opined that appellant having become the registered proprietor of the said trade mark no case for grant of injunction has been made out the interim order of injunction passed on 19 12 1985 was vacated and the defendants were permitted to use their registered trade mark subject to the following conditions a defendants will not use the logo style of the word field marshal of which logo and style the plaintiff is the proprietor under the copyright act.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
the second rectification application filed by the first respondent however was transferred to the intellectual property appellate board.
a writ petition was filed there against by the first respondent.
the division bench of the high court thereafter while disposing of both the writ petition and the letters patent appeal allowed the writ petition and set aside the order of the board and directed it to adjudicate the dispute on merits.
any person aggrieved by the absence or omission from the register of any entry or by any entry made in the register without sufficient cause or by any entry wrongly remaining on the register or by any error of defect in any entry in the register may apply in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar and the tribunal may make such order for making expunging or varying the entry as it may think fit.
any order of the high court rectifying the register shall direct that notice of the rectification shall be served upon the registrar in the prescribed manner who shall upon receipt of such notice rectify the register accordingly.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
the board has taken the view that the period of five years and one month will begin to run from the date on which thukral became the proprietor of the trademark that is30th may1986 and therefore the rectification application could have been filed by the appellant only sometime in 1991 opining that an application for rectification against the appellant within a period of seven and a half months from the date of assignment of the trade mark was not maintainable the application was dismissed.
indisputably it would be the registered proprietor.
appeal allowed.
