The Desai award dealt with the method of adjustment in the scales of pay fixed by it from para 5329 onwards.
The second group 900 consisted of workmen who on January 1 1962 were employed in banks which were not governed by the provisions of the Sastry award as modified and were not thus drawing basic pay on the footing of scales of pay provided by that award.
In the present appeals we are concerned with workmen who entered service before January 1 1959 and the fitment of these workmen was dealt with in para.
We may at this stage mention that a similar question of fit ment was considered by the Sastry award in para.
292 and certain provisions were made thereunder.
This paragraph was considered by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in appeal from the Sastry award and certain modifications were made thereunder by paras 164 and 166 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision in appeal.
Paragraph 292 as modified by the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision came up for interpretation before this Court in State Bank of India vs Prakash Chand Mehra.
1 As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
5356 of the Desai award we may set out the two paragraphs in parallel columns for comparison Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision For workmen who enterd service of the bank before 31st January 1950 1.
The workman s basic pay as on 31st January 1960 shall not be reduced in any case.
3In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing or in the scales fixed by us should be ignored.
In addition the workman will be entitled to draw his normal increment for 1953on 1st April 1963.
901 ii Subject to rule i the adjusted basic pay in the scale provided in the Sastry award as modified shall not exceed what point to point adjustment would give him or the maximum in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified.
bTo the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause a annual increment or increment in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
It will be seen from the above comparison of the provisions in the two awards that the substantial provisions of the Desai award are exactly the same as the provisions of the Sastry award as modified except i for changes necessitated by the fact that the Desai award was being given in 1962 and ii the provision in the Sastry award corresponding to sub cl.
The bank claimed that under cl.
ii and cl.
ii the method of fitment provided in cl.
Thus the bank s case was that once the maximum arrived at by point to point adjustment as on January 1 1962 was reached under cl.
We see no force in this submission.
This follows from the fact that the workman s basic pay as on January 1 1959 cannot be reduced and therefore when cl.
Further cl.
iv which provides for actual calculations starts with the words subject to rules i to iii and therefore the actual calculations made under cl.
i and cl.
Under sub cl.
a of cl.
i and the basic pay to be fixed on January 1 1959 has to be fixed by reading sub cls.
a of cl.
iv and the main dispute in the present case is about this subclause.
The appellant bank s contention is that two further annual increments allowed under sub cl.
iv of the Desai award.
Therefore two increments under sub cl.
Under subcl.
a of cl.
iv his salary will be fixed at Rs 100.
a of cl.
d which will bring his salary to Rs 112 as on January 1 1962.
CA 1008 allowed.
CA 1009 dismissed.
