721 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 24 1967 of the High Court of Mysore in Criminal Appeal No.
29 of 1965.
A section R Chari and R V Pillai for the appellants.
Shyamala Pappu and section P Nayar for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah CJ.
Originally 20 persons were tried and convicted for the same offence and received a like sentence.
The incident which took place on July 28 1962 was theft by dacoity of certain cotton pieces from two carts within the limits of Lingsugar Police Station at about 11 30 pm.
The facts are that two traders in cloth sent their wares in carts for sale.
The cartmen halted after the market was over on the way for food.
Thereafter six carts left for Mudgal at about 10 pm.
When the carts reached a Nala called Heri Halla about three miles from Lingsugur at about 11 30 pm 20 persons are said to have approached the carts and pelted stones.
It was a dark night and the assailants were not identified.
It appears that four out of the six carts escaped but two carts were looted.
The police investigated the case and arrested the 20 persons who were accused in the case as being the culprits involved in this incident.
The accused were convicted on the sole evidence of having in their possession pieces of cloth which were later identified to belong to the traders.
In these searches cloth which was undoubtedly stolen at the time of the dacoity was found in their houses.
In this appeal the only contention raised by Mr A section R Chari is that the presumption that they were dacoits ought not to have been drawn since the circumstances do not admit the drawing of such a presumption in the case According to Mr Chari the presumption to be drawn ought to have been one under section 41 1 722 of Indian Penal Code or at the most tinder section 412 of the Indian Penal Code but not of complicity in the crime of dacoity.
According to him there is no other evidence in the case which points to the complicity of the 14 appellants in the crime of dacoity and therefore as they cannot be suspected to be dacoits themselves the only presumption to be drawn is one of receivers of stolen property or as receivers of property which was stolen in a dacoity.
In our opinion the law advocated by Mr Chari is not correct.
The evidence strengthens the other evidence already against him.
It is only when the accused cannot be connected with the crime except by reason of possession of the fruits of crime that the presumption may be drawn.
In what circumstances the one presumption or the other may be drawn it is not necessary to state categorically in this case.
It all depends upon the circumstances under which the discovery of the fruits of crime are made with a particular accused.
It has been stated on more than one occasion that if the gap of time is too large the presumption that the accused was concerned with the crime itself gets weakened.
The presumption is stronger when the discovery of the fruits of crime is made immediately after the crime is.
committed.
The reason is obvious.
Disposal of the fruits of crime requires the finding of a person ready to receive them and the shortness of time the nature of the property which is disposed of that is to say its quantity and its character determine whether the person who had the goods in his possession received them from another or was himself the thief or the dacoit.
Therefore we think that a sentence of three years  rigorous imprisonment will meet the ends of justice in this case.
