1 To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
it is predominantly a charitable organization and not a professional one.
 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
This contention was also rejected with the observation that since the earlier part of the definition refers to some particular business or trade carried on in a premises the words any work in connection with or incidental or necessary thereto obviously refer to such particular business or trade and not to trade or business in general .
The title of the Act is Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 1954.
It shall apply in the first instance.
Further the definition of commercial establishment is wider than that of shop.
There is no doubt that the registered office of the Federation is premises.
The occasional exhibitions or  museums organised by it are activities which are only incidental or ancillary to the primary charitable object of the Federation.
As regards the preliminary objection it is true that before the High Court it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
Alternatively it was contended that the case fell within part b of the definition of commercial establishment inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business generally.
This point will not require any additional material for its decision.
The question is only of drawing a correct inference about the point in issue from the material already on record.
We therefore overrule the preliminary objection.
therein the Memorandum of Association Articles of Association and the other material placed before the court were closely examined.
The very definition of commercial establishment indicates that the activity of a registered society charitable or other trust will not take it out of the definition if the activity carried on by it amounts to a busi 11971 1 SCR 177.
We therefore do not think that R K Mittal s case supra was incorrectly decided and needs reconsideration.
In the matter.
It will bear repetition that the Federation also publishes periodicals bulletins etc.
