one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
before his death he executed a will on 16th november 1924 the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
by this will he gave the following directions after my lifetime you the aforesaid ranganayaki amminal my wife shall till your lifetime enjoy the aforesaid entire properties the outstandings due to me the debts payable by me and the chit amounts payable by me.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
ranganayaki entered into possession of the properties on the death of her husband.
on 21st february 1928 she settled the maintenance claim of lakshmi ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of rs 3350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of rs 240 per annum.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
none of her children survived her.
on the 24th july 1945 the widow describing herself as an absolute owner of the properties of her husband sold one of the items of the property to the 2nd defendant for rs 500.
on the 18th september 1945 the suit out of which this appeal arises was instituted by the plaintiff the husband and the sole heir of ramalakshmi for a declaration that the said sale would not be binding on him beyond the lifetime of the widow.
a prayer was made that the widow be restrained from alienating the other properties in her possession.
the plaintiff was allowed to amend his plaint and include therein a prayer for a declaration in respect of the invalidity of these alienations as well.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
the question as to the validity of the alienations was left undetermined.
the unsuccessful defendants preferred an appeal against this decree to the high court of judicature at madras.
during the pendency of the appeal the widow died on 14th february 1948.
the high court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
leave to appeal to the supreme court was granted and the appeal was admitted on the 27th november 1951.
the substantial question to decide in the appeal is whether the estate granted by the testator to his widow was a fall woman s estate under hindu law or merely a limited life estate in the english sense of that expression.
it was not contested before us that a hindu can by will create a life estate or successive life estates or any other estate for a limited term provided the donee or the persons taking under it are capable of taking under a deed or will.
the court s primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
in other words to ascertain his wishes by putting itself so to say in his armchair.
he wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue male or female may have the benefit of his property.
in express terms he conferred on his daughter powers of alienation byway of gift exchange sale but in sharp contrast to this on his widow he conferred no such powers.
the direction to her was that she should enjoy the entire properties including the outstandings etc.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
if the testator had before his mind s eye his daughter and her heirs as the ultimate beneficiaries of his bounty that intention could only be achieved by giving to the widow a limited estate because by conferring a full hindu widow s estate on her the daughter will only have a mere spes successions under the hindu law which may or may not mature and under the will her interest would only be a contingent one in what was left indisposed of by the widow.
it is significant that the testator did not say in the will that the daughter will enjoy only the properties left indisposed of by the widow.
it was argued that such a power was implicit within the acts she was authorized to do that is to say when she was directed to pay the debts and settle the maintenance of ramalakshmi it was implicit within these directions that for these purposes if necessity arose she could alienate the properties.
by this transaction she substituted one property by another.
in this situation the inference that the testator must have of necessity intended to confer on the widow power of alienation for those limited purposes can not be raised.
in our opinion even if that suggestion is accepted that for the limited purposes mentioned in the will the widow could alienate this power would fall far short of the powers that a hindu widow enjoys under hindu law.
it can not be said that a hindu widow can only alienate her husband s estate for payment of debts to meet maintenance charges and for her own maintenance.
she had complete control over the income of the property during her lifetime.
but she had no power to deal with the corpus of the estate.
according to jarman jarman on wills the law leans in favour of vesting of estates and the property disposed of belongs to the object of the gift when the will takes effect and we think the daughter got under this will a vested interest in the testator s properties on his death.
vide sasiman v shib narain 491.
mr krishnaswami iyengar sought to derive the greatest support for his contention from the decision in ram bahadur v jager.
reliance was next placed on the decision in pavani subbamma v ammala rama naidu 1937.
1 m l j 268.
a suit was instituted by the son s daughter for the recovery of possession of her share in one item of property forming part of the estate which had been sold by section the question for decision in that case was whether section was at all entitled to sell anything more than her life interest even for purposes of meeting a necessity binding upon the estate.
assuming that it is possible to create a hindu woman s estate not with standing the addition of a gift over the question nevertheless whether that had been done in a given case must depend on the terms of the particular instrument under consideration.
the following remarks in the privy council decision in nathu ram mahajan v gangayabai 1938.
2 m l j 562 were next cited as the will gave her the right to enjoy the income of the estate during her lifetime it was evidently contemplated that she should as provided by the hindu law in the case of a widow be in possession of the estate.
in vasantharao ammannamma v venkata kodanda rao pantalu 1939.
at page 193 of the report it was observed as follows the question therefore arises did he intend to confer only a life estate or a daughter s estate.
reliance was next placed on maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad.
the last decision referred to was the decision of the privy council in mahomed shumsool v shewukram 1874 indlaw pc 12 1874 75 2 i a 7 there a hindu inhabitant of bihar by a document of a testamentary character declared his daughter who had two daughters as his heir and after her two daughters together with their children were declared heirs and malik.
in a suit by the respondent against his grandmother the daughter of the testator for a declaratory order preserving unmolested his future right and title to the said lands it was held that the daughter took an estate subject to her daughters succeeding her.
in construing the will of a hindu it is not improper to take into consideration what are known to be the ordinary notions and wishes of hindus with respect to the devolution of property.
in the first instance he placed reliance on a decision of the madras high court in ratna chetty v narayana swami chetty 19i4 26 m l j 616.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
chunderbutti his wife was in these terms the remaining milkiut and minhai estates together with the amount of ready money articles slaves and all household furniture i have placed in the possession of mst.
chunderbutti thakurain my wife to be enjoyed during her lifetime in order that she may hold possession of all the properties and milkiut possessed by me the declarant during her lifetime and by the payment of government revenue appropriate the profits derived therefrom but that she should not by any means transfer the milkiut estates and the slaves that after the death of my aforesaid wife the milkiut and household furniture shall devolve on girdhari thakur my karta adopted son.
there was a clear prohibition forbidding the widow to make any transfers of the milkiuit estates and the slaves.
reference was also made to a decision of the bombay high court in lallu v jagmohan 1898 i l r 22 bom.
after considering the rival contentions of the parties we are of the opinion that no sufficient grounds have been made out for disturbing the unanimous opinion of the two courts below on the construction of this will.
in our judgment there is force in the contention of mr rajah iyer for reasons already stated and in the result therefore we dismiss this appeal with costs.
