a suit was filed in s c suit no 493 of 1986 in the bombay city civil court bombay by vicco laboratories appellant herein manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceutical products against defendant nos 1 to 4respondents herein for a declaration that the title and format of the suit serial yeh jo hai zindagi exclusively belonged to them and respondents nos 1 to 4 have no right thereto and for permanent injunction restraining the said respondents from making use of the title or episodes belonging to the petitioners or any episodes hereafter made.
a number of averments germane to this case as set out in the plaint are set out hereunder.
the petitioners carried on business as manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceuticals products which were sold under the brand name of vicco and have acquired substantial reputation in the market.
the 1st respondent are an advertising agency and have been the advertising agents in respect of the products manufactured by the petitioners as aforesaid for number of years.
the 2nd respondent is a director andor partner of the 1st respondent and has mainly dealt with the petitioners on behalf of the 1st respondent.
respondents nos 3 4 are proprietary concerns of respondent no 2 the 5th respondent is the union of india and has been joined as the authority concerning television in india in the name and style of doordarshan which is a television media.
the petitioners had employed the respondent nos 1 to 4 as their advertising agents through the petitioners sister concern m s modern advertising agency and uta advertising agency and were dealing with the respondent no 1 mainly through the petitioners managing director g k pendharkar.
in 1984doordarshan in order to popularize sponsored serial undertook the production of a serial by the name humlog.
the petitioners are also pioneers in making use of doordarshan for advertising their products through the agency of the 1st respondent approached the 1st respondent to act as their agents for the purpose of producing a serial which would be shown as petitioners sponsored programme.
the petitioners agreed to pay the entire costs of the said production to the said advertising agency and requested it to look into the matter employed various persons on behalf of the petitioners and prepare a suitable serial for them.
pursuant to the said arrangement the respondent nos 1 to 4 as the agents of the petitioners prepared at the costs and expenses of the petitioners a serial entitled yeh jo hai zindagi.
the petitioners claimed that as a result of the employment of the respondent nos 1 to 4 and the finances paid by them the petitioners are the owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the title thereof.
this was due to the negligence of the respondent nos 1 to 4 but the respondents recovered the cost of production from the petitioners.
further the said respondents had been recovering the cost of production well in advance of the serial episodes being actually produced.
01 january 1985 the petitioners though not required to do so made an ex gratia payment to respondent nos 1 to 4 of a portion of the royalty received by them from the said m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
1st and 2nd respondents had by their letter dated 14 december 1984 confirmed that the petitioners have all t v and video rights of the sponsored programme in hindi yeh jo hai zindagi and vest with the petitioners.
however the petitioners were not interested in the same as they wanted the serial to project their products only exclusively and did not agree to any other products being tied up with the said serial.
by their letter dated 02 january 1986 the petitioners informed the 1st and 2nd respondents that it was not possible to increase the costs of production for the episodes and that in the circumstances the production of the serial may stop.
the petitioners apprehended that the respondent nos 1 to 3 intended to produce further episodes under the title yeh jo hai zindagi making use of the same format as the earlier serial for and on behalf of the third party.
the petitioners reserved their right to sue for damages in terms of order ii rule 2 cpc.
apart from raising the question of valuation of the suit and the pecuniary jurisdiction of the court to try the same they also raised question that the petitioners are not the owners of the copyright in the said serial within the meaning of s 17 of the copyright act1957 and the copyright in respect of the said serial belongs and vests with the respondent nos 1 to 4.
therefore it was submitted that the suit lacked cause of action.
consistently with the said intention further the master cassette of the said serial at all relevant times remained exclusively with the respondents and not with the petitioners and the petitioners paid to the respondents 50 of the royalty received from m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
in the course of his business the 2nd respondent has developed contacts and connections with important and renowned personalities artists technicians etc in the film industry.
in the year 1967the 2nd respondent s wife mrs sunanda s oberoi started the proprietary business of advertising agency in the name and style of art commercial and the 2nd respondent used to work in various capacities for the said firm.
in the year 1983the said proprietary firm was converted into a private limited company which is the 1st respondent in the present suit and the 2nd respondent constituted respondent nos 3 and 4 as his proprietary firm.
about 18 years ago before filing of the suit the respondents came into contact with the petitioners initially as clients in connection with the job of advertisement of their products on all india radio theatre and films and later on television.
either at the end of 1983 or early part of 1984the 5th respondent through the said doorsarshan decided to introduce the production of films or serials especially for exhibitions on tv instead of exhibiting telecasting films produced by the professional film producers on payment of exorbitant royalty to them partly as an economy measure and partly to provide avenues to and exposure new talents.
after a number of meetings between the 2nd respondent and the concerned officers and the authorities of the respondents at delhi in connection with the said proposal approved a pilot i e the first episode as sample on 19 september 1984 to produce a tv serial comprising 52 episodes subject of course to the 5th respondent discretion to discontinue the same if the same proved a flop before the expiry of the stipulated period.
in these circumstances the respondents contended that by entering into the said agreement of sponsorship neither the petitioners nor the respondents created nor did they ever intend to create any relationship of employer and employee andor master and servant or principal and agent between the petitioners on the one hand and the respondents no 1 to 4 on the other.
in the meanwhile the respondents contended that m s brook bond ltd who wanted to link up their commercial with 13 episodes and agreed to pay and paid the ruling market price.
the respondents contended that on no occasion the petitioners acted as a producer and even the contract was signed by the petitioners as an advertiser and by the respondent no 1 as an approved agent.
3 do the plaintiffs prove that the entire serial rights including the excluding the exclusive right to use the title thereof belong to the plaintiffs as alleged.
4 are defendant nos 1 to 4 entitled to deny the ownership of the plaintiffs of the film.
the defendants prove that the plaintiffs are not the owners of the copyright of the tv serial film viz.
the plaintiffs entitled to permanent injuction as prayed for.
exhibit g 1 which is exhibit 27 a in the petitioners compilation is a letter written by shri s p agrawal controller of programmes of doordarshan to respondent no 1m s art commercia with reference to the format for the proposed serial of half and hour duration tentatively titled musibat hai serial sent to them on 13 july 1984 since the letter was addressed to m s art commercia in which the proposal was accepted for production of the serial and the first episode was to be sent for preview and approval which would be given only after seeing the recording of the first episode.
in one of the contracts exhibit h 1 the wording used is as under sponsorship of programme of 25 mts duration produced by sponsor entitled yeh jo hai zindagi including 2 mts free commercial time.
in this special leave petition u art 136 of the constitution the contentions raised before the high court are reiterated particularly as to the effect of s 17 of the copyright act and whether the correspondence on record would not indicate that they were entitled to ownership and copyright in respect of the tv programme yeh jo hai zindagi.
2 the bills of cost of production.
3 letters dated 14 december 1984 and 15 november 1985.
5 contractd with esquire distributing servicing pvt ltd.
it is clear from the findings recorded by the trial court and the appellate court 1 that the respondents have not undertaken the production of the said serial at the instance of the petitioners.
g k pendharkar the managing director of petitioner no 1 was asked to come to view the format of the programme and the petitioners were not even acquainted with the format of the serial while the respondents had taken concrete steps in this regard prior to the letter dated 11 july 1984.
3 that the titles of each episode indicated that respondent no 2 is the producer of the said serial and the petitioners are only the sponsors.
in his further evidence mr gill stated that some time in the month of may june1984 he had met kundan shah and requested to make a comedy serial for doordarshan which clearly indicated that it is only the respondents who were dealing with doordarshan.
if the expenses were less the petitioners did not ask for a refund and the profit or loss was entirely of the respondents.
however the learned counsel for the petitioners made elaborate reference to the income tax act1961 and the provisions whether such availment of benefit could be taken or not pursuant to the amendment effected to the provisions relating to computation of business income at different stages may not be very germane to the present case.
so far as the contentions raised on the basis of s 17 of the copyright act is concerned it is clear that the petitioners were not able to establish that the respondent nos 1 to 4 produced the said serial 1 as the agents of the petitioners 2 in the course of their employment with the petitioners 3 for valuable consideration paid by the petitioners to them and iv at the instance of the petitioners.
when these factors had not been established and the suit is itself not dependent on the interpretation of s 17 of the copyright act pleadings and issues raised did not attract the same.
we decline to interfere with the order made by the high court affirming the decree of the trial court.
