this appeal by special leave is directed against order dated 13 7 2005 passed by the division bench of the bombay high court.
dismissing letter patents appeal preferred by the appellant against the order of the learned single judge who dismissed his writ petition and confirmed the orders passed by the state minister for revenue in the proceeding r t s 3402 pra kra 309 l 6 dated 18th october2002.
it is the appellant s case that his father shri nawoosingh panjumal panjwani was a displaced person who migrated from pakistan to india during the period of partition and the appellant s family while in pakistan was having agricultural land over there admeasuring 4 acres 10 gunthas.
after migration the family took shelter at refugee camp of pimpri pune in maharashtra.
in view of enactment of displaced persons compensation and rehabilitation act1954 by the union of india the immovable properties left behind by muslims who had migrated to pakistan were acquired and the same was distributed to displaced persons as a compensation pool.
accordingly father of the appellant was allotted a land admeasuring 2 acres 5 gunthas bearing revenue survey nos 351 and 1182 situated at village lonavala taluka maval district pune.
the facts in brief as narrated in the impugned order are that survey nos 118328 and 351 of lonavala were originally owned by one haji habib tar mohammed janu.
the said haji habib tar mohammed janu migrated to pakistan and while going to pakistan he sold his property to one smt.
hajrabi haji yusuf on 4 6 1949 however this transaction was cancelled by the collector and custodian of evacuee property on 17 4 1949 as per section 8i of the evacuee properties act and these lands were accordingly entered as evacuee property by the tahsildar maval on 26 10 1949 it appears that these survey numbers were also given c t s no 129130 a130 b and 133.
however in the facts of the conflicting claims the appellant made grievance to the deputy collector and the deputy custodian of evacuee properties in respect of the mutation made in favour of the respondent gulabai and other respondents and therefore by order dated 18 9 1984 the deputy collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties pune directed the sub divisional officer haveli sub division to take up the case in revision under section 257 of maharashtra land revenue code and pass necessary orders.
after remand the sub divisional officer conducted inquiry and again passed an order on 29 10 1987 and confirmed the earlier order.
therefore the rts appeal no 128 of 1987 was preferred before the collector which was disposed off by the additional collector on 13 7 1993 by the said order the order of the third sub divisional officer was maintained.
however further inquiry as directed by the sdo was to be conducted.
the directions were issued by the collector to the tahsildar to place the appellant in possession of the property as per the orders of the deputy collector and the deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
being aggrieved by the order passed in the said revision respondent no 2 lalwani preferred rts appeal no 81 of 2000 and the respondent no 3 genu kadu preferred rts appeal no 114 of 2000 both.
collector pune dismissed the said appeals and confirmed the order of the sub divisional officer maval.
aggrieved by the said order of the additional collector respondent no 2 preferred rts revision no 330 of 2001 under section 257 of maharashtra land revenue code1966 before the additional commissioner pune division pune.
the said revision was decided by the additional commissioner pune by order dated 22 11 2001 and the said revision was dismissed.
appellant challenged the order dated 19 10 2002 passed by the minister by filing a writ petition which was dismissed by learned single judge of the bombay high court.
thereafter the appellant filed letters patent appeal which was also dismissed by the division bench holding that when the state minister for revenue entertained the matter he was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
however the sub divisional officer has taken the said mutation in revision in rts revision no 14 of 1984 and has set aside the mutation by order dated 30 7 1985 there was appeal as against that order which was remanded.
in the alternative learned senior counsel submitted that even if it were to be admitted without prejudice that second revision is maintainable the minister being the revisional authority should not have interfered with the findings recorded by all the six revenue authorities.
learned counsel relied upon the decision of this court in the case of state of kerala vs k m charia abdulla co air 1965.
ahmadi learned senior counsel further submitted that a request was made to the high court not to enter into the merit of the case and to confine itself to the question whether a second revision was at all maintainable in the light of the ratio in harishankar s case 1961.
1961 indlaw sc 157hiralal kapur vs prabhu choudhury1988 2 scc 172 1988 indlaw sc 342 and helper girdharbhai vs saiyed mohmad mirasaheb kadri and others1987 3 scc 538 1987 indlaw sc 28281 learned counsel also drew our attention to the decision of this court in dharampal vs ramshri1993 1 scc 435 1993 indlaw sc 1325 where this court held.
p c was not permitted.
2 scc 334 2005 indlaw sc 6 for the proposition that there can be a second revision under the same provision of the statute.
before we proceed to decide the aforesaid question we would like to refer the relevant provisions of the maharashtra land revenue code 1966.
chapter ii deals with the revenue officers their powers and duties.
assistants as may be expressed in the order of their appointmentone or more naib tahsildars in a taluka and one or more additional tahsidars or naib tahsildars therein and such other persons having such designations to assist the revenue officers as it may deem expedient.
3 subject to the general orders of the state government the collector may place any assistant or deputy collector in charge of one more sub divisions of a district or may himself retain charge thereof.
below 11 subordination of officers.
3unless the state government directs otherwise all other revenue officers including survey officers shall be subordinated the one to the other in such order as the state government may direct.
from reading of the aforesaid provisions it is manifest that the state government makes appointment of the revenue officers including the commissioner and the chief controlling authorities in the revenue matters.
the language and the words used in the said provision suggest that jurisdiction of the state government is concurrent with the jurisdiction of other revenue officers in deciding the revision.
hence even if one party goes to the commissioner in revision the state government can still be approached under section 257 for revision.
further in view of the fact that state government itself appoints the revenue officers including the commissioner under the scheme of the code and all revenue officers are subordinate to the state government as per section 11 of the act and even the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division is vested with the commissioner they are subject to the superintendence direction and control of the state government as provided under section 5 of the code.
in other words the state government in exercise of its revisional as well as general power of superintendence and control can call for any record of proceedings and consider the legality and propriety of the orders passed by the revenue officers under section 247 or 257 of the code.
from perusal of the entire scheme of the code including section 257it is manifest that the revisional powers are not only exercisable by the state government but also by certain other revenue officers.
a fair reading of sections 257 and 259 suggests that if revisional powers are exercised by a revenue officer having jurisdiction to do so further revisional power can be exercised by the superior officer or by the state government.
a similar question came for consideration before this court in the case of ishwar singh vs 2 scc 334 under the rajasthan cooperative societies act1965 in that ac t by section 128 power was conferred upon the state government and the registrar to call for and examine the records of any enquiry or proceedings of any other matter of any officer subordinate to them for the purpose of satisfying themselves as to the legality or propriety of any decision or order passed by such officer.
if one authority exercises revisional power the other authority logically can not have exercised such power.
the power of the government and the registrar in terms of section 128 excludes matters which are covered by section 125 i e revision by the tribunal.
considering the entire scheme of the code and the provisions contained in sections 257 and 259we are of the definite opinion that the minister concerned of the state government can entertain second revision to satisfy the legality and propriety of the order passed by the revenue officer.
the division bench of the bombay high court has elaborately discussed the question and passed the impugned order holding that section 257 confers jurisdiction to the state government to entertain its revision against the order passed by any revenue officer either in appeal or in revision.
we find no infirmity in the impugned order passed by the high court.
hence this appeal has no merit which is accordingly dismissed.
before parting with the order we must make it clear that in view of the request made by the appellant before the high court not to enter into the merit of the case since the party may prosecute their remedies in the civil court for adjudication we have not expressed any opinion with regard to the merit of the case of the parties.
