ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
on the 24th july 1945 the widow describing herself as an absolute owner of the properties of her husband sold one of the items of the property to the 2nd defendant for rs 500. on the 18th september 1945 the suit out of which this appeal arises was instituted by the plaintiff the husband and the sole heir of ramalakshmi for a declaration that the said sale would not be binding on him beyond the lifetime of the widow.
if the testator had before his mind 's eye his daughter and her heirs as the ultimate beneficiaries of his bounty that intention could only be achieved by giving to the widow a limited estate because by conferring a full hindu widow 's estate on her the daughter will only have a mere spes successions under the hindu law which may or may not mature and under the will her interest would only be a contingent one in what was left indisposed of by the widow.
it was strenuously argued by mr k section krishnaswami iyengar that lakshminarayana iyer was a brahmin gentleman presumably versed in the sastras living in a village in the southernmost part of the madras state that his idea of a restricted estate was more likely to be one analogous to a hindu woman 's estate than a life estate a understood in english law wherein the estate is measured by use and not by duration and that if this will was construed in the light of the notions of lakshminarayana iyer it should be held that the widow got under it a hindu widow 's estate and the daughter got under it a contingent remainder in the nature of spes and on her death there was nothing which could devolve on the plaintiff and he thus had no locus standi to question the alienations made by the widow.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband 's estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
he wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue male or female may have the benefit of his property.
chunderbutti thakurain my wife to be enjoyed during her lifetime in order that she may hold possession of all the properties and milkiut possessed by me the declarant during her lifetime and by the payment of government revenue appropriate the profits derived therefrom but that she should not by any means transfer the milkiut estates and the slaves that after the death of my aforesaid wife the milkiut and household furniture shall devolve on girdhari thakur my karta adopted son.
that was a case of a government grant on the special terms set out therein and the question arose as to the nature of the grant.
the defendants pleaded that the plaintiff had no title to maintain the suit that the widow was entitled under the will to an absolute estate or at least to an estate analogous to and not less than a widow 's estate that the estate given to ramalakshmi under the will was but a contingent one and she having predeceased the widow no interest in the suit properties devolved on the plaintiff.
mr krisbnaswami lyengar on the other hand contended that the absence of any words in the will restricting her powers of alienation and putting a restraint on them suggested a contrary intention and that the daughter 's estate was described as coming into being after the estate of the widow and was not conferred on her simultaneously with the widow and this connoted according to the notions of hindus a full hindu widow 's estate.
it was remarked that in spite of an express restriction against alienation the estate taken by section the niece was an estate such as a woman ordinarily acquires by inheritance under the hindu law which she holds in a completely representative character but is unable to alienate except in case of legal necessity and that such a construction was in accordance with the ordinary notions that a hindu has in regard to devolution of his property.
l j 199.
the will there recited that if a daughter or son was born to the testator during his lifetime such son or daughter would be the owner of all his properties but if there was no son or daughter his niece section would get a bequest of a lakh of rupees and the rest of the movable and immovable properties would remain in possession of his wife until her death and after her these would remain in possession of his niece.
there is no such indication in the will before us.
these remarks do not throw much light on the point before us.
in this judgment the following observations were emphasized as relevant to this enquiry it has been contended that these latter expressions qualify the generality of the former expressions and that the will taken as a whole must be construed as intimating the intention of the testator that mst.
it was not contested before us that a hindu can by will create a life estate or successive life estates or any other estate for a limited term provided the donee or the persons taking under it are capable of taking under a deed or will.
this decision therefore goes against the contention of the learned counsel but he placed reliance on the observations made in the judgment when the learned judge proceeded to say in deference to the view taken in maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad 1 it may be possible to create an interest analogous to a woman 's estate in hindu law notwithstanding the addition of a gift over and that the estate taken by section need not necessarily be only a life estate in the english law sense of the term.
the learned counsel for the respondent followed the line adopted by mr krishnaswami iyengar.
chunderbutti his wife was in these terms the remaining milkiut and minhai estates together with the amount of ready money articles slaves and all household furniture i have placed in the possession of mst.
it was held that suraj took only a life estate under the will with remainder over to mahalaxmi after her death and the bequest to mahalaxmi was not contingent on her surviving suraj but that she took a vested remainder which upon her death passed to her heirs.
the high court took a different view and held that chunderbutti took the estate in her character as a hindu widow.
the subordinate judge held that the widow took under the will a limited life interest and not an absolute estate or even a widow 's estate under hindu law and that the daughter got there under a vested interest in the properties to which the plaintiff succeeded on her death.
the subordinate judge held that chunderbutti got an estate for life with the power to appropriate profits and girdhari got a vested remainder on her death.
varadachari j held that since in the will the gift over to the grand children was of the entire properties and not a mere gift by way of defeasance it had to be held that it indicated that the prior gift in favour of the widow was only of a limited interest.
their lordships see no sufficient reason for importing into this document words which would carry with them all these consequences and they agree with the subordinate judge in construing it according to its plain meaning.
in a suit by the respondent against his grandmother the daughter of the testator for a declaratory order preserving unmolested his future right and title to the said lands it was held that the daughter took an estate subject to her daughters succeeding her.
according to jarman jarman on wills the law leans in favour of vesting of estates and the property disposed of belongs to the object of the gift when the will takes effect and we think the daughter got under this will a vested interest in the testator 's properties on his death.
there was a clear prohibition forbidding the widow to make any transfers of the milkiuit estates and the slaves.
the provisions contained in this will bear no analogy to those we have to construe.
a suit was instituted by the son 's daughter for the recovery of possession of her share in one item of property forming part of the estate which had been sold by section the question for decision in that case was whether section was at all entitled to sell anything more than her life interest even for purposes of meeting a necessity binding upon the estate.
at page 193 of the report it was observed as follows the question therefore arises did he intend to confer only a life estate or a daughter 's estate.
the fact that the gift over was a contingent bequest was by itself taken as a sure indication that the preceding bequest was that of a widow 's estate.
the question in every case can not be determined merely on the theory that every hindu thinks only about a hindu widow 's estate and no more.
the decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator 's intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life estate or an estate analogous to that of a hindu widow.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow 's estate and whether the daughter 's interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
vide sasiman v shib narain 491.
a 2 5.
however out of respect for learned counsel on both sides who adopted the same method of approach we proceed to examine some of the important cases referred to by them.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
this was a case of a gift inter vivos.
the question as to the validity of the alienations was left undetermined.
the last decision referred to was the decision of the privy council in mahomed shumsool v shewukram 1874 indlaw pc 12 1874 75 2 i a 7 there a hindu inhabitant of bihar by a document of a testamentary character declared his daughter who had two daughters as his heir and after her two daughters together with their children were declared heirs and malik.
before his death he executed a will on 16th november 1924 the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
during the pendency of the appeal the widow died on 14th february 1948.
the high court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
reliance was next placed on maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad.
appeal dismissed.
it is not shown that she alienated a single item of immovable property till the year 1945 a period of over 21 years after the death of her husband excepting one which she alienated in the year 1937 to raise a sum of rs 1000 in order to buy some land.
the following remarks in the privy council decision in nathu ram mahajan v gangayabai 1938.
reliance was next placed on the decision in pavani subbamma v ammala rama naidu 1937.
one daughter of the daughter predeceased the testator without issue and the other daughter died after the death of the testator leaving an only son the respondent in that case.
2 m l j 562 were next cited as the will gave her the right to enjoy the income of the estate during her lifetime it was evidently contemplated that she should as provided by the hindu law in the case of a widow be in possession of the estate.
this will was couched in different language than the will in the present case.
we do not understand how such passing observations can be helpful in deciding the present case.
and my wife has powers to do in the same way as i have absolute powers to do when i am present and in case of my wife 's death my daughter mahalaxmi is owner of the said property after that.
such casual observation made in respect of a will couched in entirely different terms can not afford much assistance in the decision of the case.
though no restraint in express terms was put on her powers of alienation in case of necessity even that limited power was not given to her in express terms.
if the same line of reasoning is adopted here the decision of the case would go against the client of mr k section k iyengar because in the will in this case the widow 's estate is delimited by the words till your lifetime.
the widow in such a case takes as a demise and not as an heir.
these observations have to a certain extent relevance to the present case but on the facts this case is also distinguishable.
