the appellant filed this appeal against that decision after obtaining special leave from this court.
if in any particular year the working of the industrial concern has resulted in loss there is no basis nor justification for a demand for bonus.
as at present advised a claim for bonus which had been rested on profits earned should ordinarily be determined on the basis of the profits earned in the year under claim and that the scale of bonus should be determined on the quantum of profits earned in the year.
without committing ourselves to the acceptance of the above formula in its entirety we may point out that the labour appellate tribunal did not apply its own formula to the facts of the present case.
the labour appellate tribunal did not accept the contention of the respondent that bonus should be linked to dividends nor did it rest its decision on the respondent having a right title and interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the appellant.
this imports the conception that even though the payment be not strictly due to the recipient nor legally enforceable by him a claim to the same may be laid by the employee under certain conditions and if such claim is entertained either by an agreement with the employer or by adjudication before a properly constituted tribunal as on an industrial dispute arising.
as a result of all these circumstances the appellant suffered a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10.
a sum of rs 250000 being the excess reserve for taxation was written back and a sum of rs 1001871 13 5 being the amount of reserve transferred from the investment account was also brought in.
this can be achieved by having a contented labour force on the one hand and on the other hand an investing public who would be attracted to the industry by a steady and progressive return on capital which the industry may be able to offer.
the conciliation board by a majority decision repelled the contention of the appellant and awarded the payment of bonus at annas 4 per rupee.
it is also significant to note that even while importing considerations of social justice the labour appellate tribunal was oblivious of the fact that it was by their own acts of indiscipline and strike that the workers of the appellant company themselves contributed to the trading losses incurred by the appellant and it hardly lay in their mouth then to contend that they were none the less entitled to a payment of bonus commensurate with the dividend paid to the shareholders out of the undistributed profits of the previous years.
the trading loss was deducted from this amount leaving a credit balance of rs 749308 11 7 and that amount was shown as the profit for the year 1949 in the balance sheet for that year.
mr isaacs the learned counsel for the respondent.
this definition was adopted by stirling j in in re eddystone marine insurance co l r i894 w n 30 webster 's international dictionary defines bonus as something given in addition to what is ordinarily received by or strictly due to the recipient.
the offer of a bonus is the means frequently adopted to secure continuous service from an employee to enhance his efficiency and to augment his loyalty to his employer and the employee 's acceptance of the offer by performing the things called for by the offer binds employer to pay the bonus so called.
whereas the industrial court declined to grant the respondent any relief because the working of the appellant during the year had resulted in a loss the labour appellate tribunal made a special case for the respondent in spite of its concurrence with that finding of the industrial court.
this appeal with special leave is directed against the judgment and order of the labour appellate tribunal of india in a dispute regarding the workers claim for bonus.
it is significant to observe that this principle was accepted by the labour appellate tribunal itself.
both the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal found as a fact that there was a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10 during the year 1949 and also.
the labour appellate tribunal also overlooked the fact that but for the public companies limitation of dividend.
the principles for the grant of bonus were discussed and a formula was evolved by the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal in millowners association bombay v rashtreeya mill mazdoor sangh bombay 1950.
the respondent thereupon appealed to the labour appellate tribunal which substantially agreed with the industrial court on questions of fact as well as the general position in law but imported considerations of social justice and treating this as a special case where social justice would demand that labour should have bonus for the year where for that very year capital had not only a reasonable return but much in excess of that allowed the appeal and directed the appellant to pay to the workmen bonus at the rate of annas 4 per rupee within six weeks of their decision.
indeed the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal evolved the abovequoted formula with a view to dispensing social justice between the various parties concerned.
the considerations of social justice imported by the labour appellate tribunal in arriving at the decision in favour of the respondent were not only irrelevant but untenable.
that full bench decision stands and this tribunal and all other tribunals are bound by it.
both labour and capital contribute to the earnings of the industrial concern it is fair that labour should derive some benefit if there is a surplus after meeting prior or necessary charges and the following were prescribed as the first charges on gross profits viz 1 provision for depreciation 2 reserves for rehabilitation 3 a return at 6 per cent.
in our full bench decision see 1950 2 l l j 1247 we carefully considered the question of social justice in relation to bonus and there we equated the rights and liabilities of employers and workmen with a view to achieving a just formula for the computation of bonus.
the question which therefore arises for our consideration is mainly whether the workers are entitled to the payment of a bonus in spite of the employer having worked at a loss during the year and incidentally whether the workers have any right title or interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the previous years.
the shareholders only would be entitled to such benefit and the mere fact that dividends were declared and paid to the shareholders out of such reserves and undistributed profits would not entitle the workers to demand bonus when in fact the working of the industrial concern during the particular year had showed a loss.
to a similar effect are the observations in kenicott v supervisors of wayne county 1873 83 u s 452 21 l ed.
this position was recognised in sutton v attorney general 1923.
t l r 294 297 where the earl of birkenhead observed the term bonus may of course be properly used to describe payments made of grace and not as of right.
social justice is a very vague and indeterminate expression and no clear cut definition can be laid down which will cover all the situations.
vide encyclopaedia britannica volume iii page 856.
the pocket part of the corpus juris secundum volume xi under the heading as compensation for services quotes the following passage from attorney general v city of woburn 317 mass 465 the word bonus is commonly used to denote an increase in salary or wages in contracts of employment.
it however observed but in our opinion that should not be the universal rule.
below those obtained in 1948.
the basic wages were increased from the 1st december 1948 by order of the government of uttar pradesh and the total wages paid were therefore higher than those in the previous year.
this has been clearly recognised even in the various decisions of the labour appellate tribunal e g nizam sugar factory ltd hyderabad v their workmen 1952.
i l l j 386 textile mills madhya pradesh v their workmen 1952 2 l l j 625and famous cine laboratory v their workmen 1953.
i l l j 466this was also the basis of the demand of the respondent in the case before us its case being that the appellant had reaped substantial profits during the year 1949.
this case was negatived by the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal both of whom held that the working of the appellant during the year 1949 had resulted in a loss.
this formula was reiterated in textile mills m p their workmen 1952 2 l l j 625 and famous cine laboratory v their workmen 1953 1 l l j 466 and in the latter case it deprecated the idea of adjudicators importing considerations of social justice which were not comprised in that formula and what is social justice.
we may before concluding refer to an argument which was addressed to us by mr isaacs the learned counsel for the respondent that this court under article 136 should not interfere with the decisions of the tribunals set up by the industrial disputes act 1947.
this contention can be shortly answered by referring to our decision in bharat bank ltd delhi v employees of the bharat bank ltd delhi 1950 s c r 459 1950 indlaw sc 48 where we held that the industrial tribunals were tribunals within the meaning of article 136 and further that article 136 has vested in this court exceptional and overriding power to interfere where it reaches the conclusion that a person has been dealt with arbitrarily or that a court or tribunal within the territory of india has not given a fair deal to a litigant.
on the 4th may 1950 the secretary of the respondent union petitioned to the provincial conciliation officer textile that there was more production in 1949 than in 1948 that there was no reason to hold that the profit in 1949 was less than in the previous year and that the rate of bonus was wrongly reduced and asked that bonus for 1949 should also be paid at the rate of annas 4 per rupee.
ordinance of 1948 the whole of the profits of 1948 could have been distributed after paying the workers bonus in that year of four annas in the rupee.
during the year 1948 the appellant made a profit of rs 1197648 11 9.
it paid 24 3 per cent.
during the year 1949 the selling rates for cloth and yarn were controlled by the government and were approximately 4 per cent.
dividend on ordinary shares being the maximum that could be paid under the public companies limitation of dividend ordinance of 1948 and also paid to the workers their full share of bonus at annas 4 in a rupee of their basic earnings.
it is not a gift or gratuity but a sum paid for services or upon a consideration in addition to or in excess of that which would ordinarily be given 12. and also in great western garment co ltd v minister of national revenue 1948.
d l r 25 233.
a bonus may be a mere gift or gratuity as a gesture of goodwill and not enforceable or it may be something which an employee is entitled to on the happening of a condition precedent and is enforceable when the condition is fulfilled.
appeal allowed.
on an appeal taken by the appellant to the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur the industrial court accepted the contention of the appellant allowed the appeal and set aside the award.
the ratio which applies in the case of the shareholders who acquire the right title and interest of their predecessorsin interest does not apply to the labour force and the fact that the shareholders get a dividend by transfer of funds from the reserves and undistributed profits of the previous years would not entitle the workers to demand bonus out of those funds if the working of the industrial concern during the particular year has resulted in a trading loss.
the appeal will accordingly be allowed with costs.
there may be special cases and we consider the case before us to be one where social justice would demand that labour should have bonus for the year where for that very year capital had not only a reasonable return but much in excess of that.
