february 1963 to the appellant.
24 bears the signature of n l handa the tehsildar and of sukhchain lal jain p w 11 on behalf of the military estate officer and the appellant.
the learned advocate for the appellant has meticulously taken us through the entire documentary and oral evidence and commented at length upon the various contradictions and incongruities in the case of the prosecution with a view to establishing that when the appellant took possession of the land there was no crop standing on it that tile possession of the land was in fact delivered to telu ram contractor on 10 1 1963 that the said contractor had admitted that possession of the entire land was received by him that he carried on the construction work in extending the aerodrome that 200250 donkeys were also used for doing the work by reason of which the crop was damaged before tehsildar had put the appellant in possession of the land and as a matter of fact there was no crop thereon when he got the possession of the land.
p 24 that actual possession was delivered to the appellant on 13th february 63 as per the delivery receipt executed by him the tehsildar and p w 11 a representative of the military estate office and that even according to his letter already referred to exhibit p 13 there wag standing crop on the land.
the appellant has denied that there was any standing crop on the land acquired on any date after 13 2 63.
on the other hand he emphatically asserted that at the time when the possession was delivered to him on 13 2 63 there was also no crops standing on the acquired land.
for instance it is quite possible that the person whom he allowed to cut the crop may be his own relation or friend in whom he may be interested and who may however not know that the accused was doing something dishonest in permitting him to cut the crop.
in any case the facts which have been stated in the sanction clearly indicate that the appellant has dishonestly allowed the crops to be cut so that there is no question of any inference or implication that the persons cutting the crops were abetting him in the offence.
a copy of this letter was sent to the garrison engineer the appellant.
this statement is clearly false as it is against credible documentary evidence at a time when there was no possibility of any charge being levied against the appellant.
it is therefore clear that in estimating the crop the small portion of the land where crops were stated to have been cut by the 13 2 63 even if true could not have been taken into account.
in our view there is no justification for holding that the conviction under section 51c read with 52 is bad for want of the requisite sanction.
it is further contended that the stand taken by the prosecution was that the persons who we re permitted to cut the crops bad not committed any offence.
but even so the offence with which the appellant is charged under section 51c does not necessarily involve an abetment with the person whom he had dishonestly allowed to cut and take away the crop.
c that by corrupt or illegal means and by abusing his position as a public servant he obtained pecuniary advantage of rs 2500 as the value of the crops to be cut from the land andor he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriated that sum by converting it into his own use instead of depositing the said sale price in the govt.
rs 3000 only which amount he accepted for his personal use and thereby also abused his official position and obtained pecuniary advantage for himself in a sum of rs.
it was also contended that the high court had not considered the contradictions in the earlier statement made by some of the witnesses to the military authorities and that it relied on many of the documents for affirming the conviction of the appellant without their actually being put to him under section 342.
before we consider these contentions it is necessary to determine another submission of the learned advocate for the appellant which goes to the root of the jurisdiction of the court to try the offence under section 51c.
major som nath did not account for this amount in the govt.
apart from this amount compensation was also awarded for standing crop amounting to rs 11073 13.
before the land was actually acquired the appellant who was a major in the military engineering service was working as a garrison engineer and was inching of the extension.
it has been contended firstly that the high court was in error in relying on certain evidence for convicting the accused which was not put to him.
if this contention is valid then the conviction of the accused can not stand and therefore it is necessary to deal with this matter first.
they can at best be used to contradict in the cross examination of such a witness when he gives evidence at the trial court of the accused in the manner provided under section 145 of the evidence act.
secondly the evidence that was necessary to unfold the story of the prosecution has not been produced by the prosecution but the trial court and the high court ignored this lacunas in the prosecution case.
the session judge had found that both charges were proved.
it was held that an alteration of the appellant 's conviction under section 409 i p c into one of abetment thereof would imply a definite finding against the subordinate judge who is not before the court and as such it would be unfair to make such an alteration.
the trial court as well as the high court are in our view justified in holding that crops of sarson gram and lusan were standing on the land acquired by the military for extension of the aerodrome.
we do not find that the assessment of the evidence by the trial court and the high court even in the light of such of those previous statements that have been put to the witnesses in the manner stated above is in any way unjustified.
if so a charge under section 51c would implicate those persons also in the commission of an offence which certainly would not have been in the contemplation of the authorities granting the sanction.
and which had been valued at rs 11073 13 by the revenue authorities dishonestly or fraudulently allowed moti ram of sirsa to misappropriate the said standing crop and thereby contravened section 51c of the prevention of corruption act punishable with section 52 of that act.
of india does not cover the trial of the charge under section 51c of the prevention of corruption act.
section 61 of the act bars the jurisdiction of the court to take cognizance of an offence for which previous sanction is required and has not been given.
the facts disclose the commission of the offence of criminal misconduct as defined in section 51d read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act 1947 by major som nath accused.
in that case sanction was given under section 6 of the prevention of corruption act 47 for the prosecution of the appellant for having received illegal gratification from one pal singh.
treasury converted it to his own use and whereas the said acts of major som nath constituted offences punishable under section 52 of the prevention of corruption act read with section 5 1 c and d act No 11 of 1947 of the said act and section 409 of the i p c and whereas the central govt.
under that clause sanction has to be given to a prosecution for the contravention of any of the provision of the order.
he was charged with and tried for two offences under section 51 a of the act for habitually accepting or obtaining illegal gratification and under section 51d for receiving illegal gratification from pal singh.
a person could not be charged merely with the breach of a particular provision of the order he must be charged with the commission of certain acts which constitute a breach and it is to that prosecution that is for having done acts which constitution breach of the order that the sanction is required.
in fact the order specifically mentions thisprovision while granting sanction.
now on the merits of the case as we said earlier the learned advocate for the appellant has referred to the evidence in meticulous detail and has commented thereon at length but this court ordinarily does not reappropriation the evidence with a view to arriving at its own finding as if it was a court of fact and does not ordinarily upset the findings of the high court which has on an evaluation of the evidence affirmed the trial court 's conviction and sentence.
in fact as we have noticed earlier this is what telu ram says in his evidence namely that on loan january63 no delivery of possession of the remaining land other than rd 4500 to 1200 the land in which there is the existing run way was given.
this shows that no work had in fact been undertaken on the land acquired and also that possession of the existing runway and track had already been given.
the question therefore would be whether these facts were sufficient to sustain the sanction under 51c even if the charge under 51d had failed.
when the witnesses are contradicted by their previous statements in the manner aforesaid then that part of the statements which has been put to the witness will be considered along with the evidence to assess the worth of the witness in determining his veracity.
in the present case there is nothing on the face of the sanction and no extraneous evidence to show that the sanctioning authority knew the facts alleged to constitute a breach of the order and the sanction is invalid.
the fact that otwithstanding overwhelming evidence particularly of his own admission at the time he denies that there were ever any crops when delivery of possession of the land acquired was taken by him further reinforces the conclusion that he allowed the crops to be cut away with dishonest or fraudulent motive.
this appeal is by special leave against the judgment of the high court of punjab and haryana confirming the conviction of the accused under section 51c of the prevention of corruption act 1947 as also the sentence awarded by the sessions judge of one year 's rigorous imprisonment and a fine of rs 2500 in default six months rigorous imprisonment.
the sanction that has been accorded is in the following terms 11th april 1966.
whereas it is alleged that major som nath while functioning as garrison engineer m e s air field at sirsa from 13 2 63 to 54 1963 by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as such public servant obtained pecuniary advantage of rs 2500 for allowing the standing crops to be cut from the land acquired for the extension of air field.
p w 14 ranadive tells us that if one were to go from the entrance of air field to the acquired land one would have to pass through rd 4500 to 1200.
the acquired land extended from rd 1200 to rd 00.
according to p w 8 telu ram he acquired possession of the land of the length from rd 4500 to rd 1200 on 10th january 1963 and that tile possession of the acquired land was not delivered to him as it had not been acquired by that time.
sukhchain lal jain p w 11 who had also come to obtain possession on behalf of the military estate officer had said that he had seen some part of the crops had been cut by 13 2 1963 but was not aware who had cut them.
it will also justify the conclusion that they were there at any rate till the 20th march 1963 and according to the letter of the contractor p w 8 on 23 3 63 they were completely cut.
the work of the extension of aerodynamic was entrusted to one telu ram p w 8 contractor with whom the trusted to m e s department entered into an agreement on december 3 1962.
this agreement was signed both by the appellant and p w 14.
the work according to that agreement was to be done in 2 phases first phase was to commence on 10th january 1963 and was to be completed by 9th october 1963.
after the completion of the first phase the second phase was to start on 10th october 1963 and completed by 9th may 1964. pursuant to this agreement it is said that symbolic possession of the land which was acquired was taken over by the tehsildar on 1st february 1963 after which at any rate it appears from exhibit p 24 that actual possession of this land was handed over by the said tehsildar on 13th.
in this letter he says 12th feb 1963.
my dear mr nagpal i am writing to you with regard to.
1957 indlaw sc 59 was also cited by the respondent 's advocate in support of the contention that the trial of two offences requiring sanction was not valid.
it was then that he wrote on 23 1 1963 as per exhibit 8 to the assistant garrison engineer complaining that the possession of the whole of the land had not been delivered to him.
appeal dismissed.
the facts of the case in brief are that in view of the chinese invasion air field at sirsa required to be extended for which purpose the ministry of defence govt.
the case of the prosecution initially was that after the land so acquired with the standing crop was taken possession of by the appellant.
sinha j as he then was while dismissing the appeal observed at page 766.
in the present case the sanction strictly construed indicates the consideration by the sanctioning authority of the facts relating to the receiving of the illegal gratification from pal singh and therefore the appellant could only be validly tried for that offence.
considered for the purposes of according sanction were a that the appellant as a public servant was entrusted with crops situated on the land acquired for the extension of air field sirsa b that by abusing his position as a public servant he allowed the standing crops to be cut from the said land.
the prosecution for offence under section 51d therefore is not barred because the proceedings are not without previous sanction which was validly given for the offence of receiving a bribe from pal singh but the offence of habitually receiving illegal gratification could not be taken cognizance of and the prosecution and trial for that offence was void for want of sanction which is a condition precedent for the courts taking cognizance of the offence alleged to be committed and therefore the high court has rightly set aside the conviction for that offence.
we should have thought this was an obvious conclusion but the learned advocate for the appellant strenuously contended that the charge against the appellant was of a motiveless offenceand in any case the facts as disclosed show that not only at thetime when the first information report was given but even at the time when sanction was accorded that the prosecution wag merely concerned with the charge that the appellant bad allowed the crops to be cut on the condition that rs 2500 will be paid and received the money and misappropriated or converted it tohis own use by not paying it into the govt.
before we deal with the contentions urged on behalf of the appellant it is necessary to have a clear picture of certain broad features of the case.
he had in anticipation of acquisition and execution of the work appointed a b ranadive p w 14 as assistant garrison engineer who was to be responsible for all the matters connected with the acquisition of land demarcation of boundaries as an engineer inching for execution of the contract and responsible for the maintenance of the air field.
after fully and carefully examining the materials before it in regard to the said allegations and circumstances of the case consider that major som nath should be prosecuted in a court of law for the said offences.
we do not think in these circumstances there is any justification whatever for interfering with the concurrent findings of the trial court and the high court that the appellant is guilty of an offence under section 51c read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act and consequently the appeal is dismissed.
