while his arguments did not impress us we were touched by his concluding words that he had been born and had grown in an adivasi village in the only brahmin family and in his evening years of life proposed to give a substantial part of the compensation the state would give him for adivasi welfare.
but as the court directed that no further evidence on behalf of the state should be received ext.
the direction given by the learned judge in the remand order is correct although it may require a little clarification.
if we may anticipate ourselves none of the nine submissions has appealed to us save to the extent the high court has upheld.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit 's points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
point No 8 has only to be stated to be rejected.
the next point in the reverse order is equally unsubstantial and may be disposed of right away.
for the purposes of the law the rupee of long ago is the same as the rupee of today although for the purposes of the market place and cost of living the housewife 's answer may be different.
having heard the appellant at some length we see no flaw in the high court 's order on this aspect of the matter.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
the contention is that on the date of vesting which was well over two decades ago the purchasing power of the rupee was much higher than its present value.
it is more or less a world phenomenon that the erosi on in value of the unit of currency has been taking place but this invisible devaluation owing to the inflationary spiral does not affect the quantum of monetary compensation prescribed by statute.
moreover the high court has rightly pointed out that the validity of section 373 of the act which fixes a small rate of interest on the compensation amount has been upheld by the supreme court in gajapati narayan 's case.
this was wrong and contrary to section 26 as was contended by the appellant and in a way accepted by the high court.
section 26 has great relevance as it lays down the method of arriving at the gross asset and section 27 has like significance as it focuses on the manner in which the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting certain items from the gross asset of the estate.
8 compensation money should be so calculated that the purchasing power of the amount of compensation to be paid on the date of actual payment will not be less than its purchasing power on the date of vesting and 9 interest should be calculated at not less than 12 per annum from the date of vesting till payment.
point No 9 in the catalogue already given relates to the claim for 12 interest on the amount of compensation as against the statutory rate of 2 12.
the policy of the law of agrarian reform postulates the extinguishment of ancient privileges and cornering of land resources and the socioeconomic yardstick is different from what applies to ordinary purchases of real estate and this is manifest in the special provisions contained in article 31a and article 31b of the constitution.
then followed three revision petitions to the high court which led to the order of remand now attacked before us in the present appeals.
the contention is that therefore in arriving at the next income the deduction of income tax is not permissible.
of course when there is joint ownership section 24 stipulates that the compensation shall be determined for the estate as a whole and not separately for each of the shares therein.
equally clearly a slight error has crept into the judge 's order because he does not make any reference specifically to the statutory requirement of approval of the chief conservator of forests of the appraisement made by the forest officer.
from this narrative what follows is that the chief conservator had substituted his appraisement which was accepted by the statutory tribunal.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
the act also provides for appeal second appeal and revision the last being to the high court and the earlier ones being to the collector and a board constituted under section 22.
the rule making power is vested in the government under section 47 and there is a routine removal of difficulties clause contained in section 50.
these furnish in bare outline the provisions with which we are directly concerned.
there are a few other s s in chapter vi which deal with payment of compensation.
there was no direction that this report of the d f o should be further subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
we are directly concerned with the issue of compensation which is dealt with as earlier stated in chapter v of the act.
the expression forest officer used here has been explained in section 26.
so the first step is for the government to appoint forest officers from out of d f os in the forest department for the purposes of the act.
the provisions of section 373 read with section 262.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
the slab system of calculation of compensation in the act providing smaller multiples for estates yielding larger income is unconstitutional.
the report of the chief conservator of forests is also invalid because of the fact that the appraisement is made only with reference to the area of the disputed forests without taking into consideration the density of growth therein.
holmes once commented it is revolting to have no better reason for a rule of law than that.
with these directions and observations we affirm the orders under appeal but while dismissing the appeals direct the parties to bear their costs in this court.
the dynamic rule of law with a social mission makes a meaningful distinction between rights steeped in the old system and compensation for deprivation of those interests on the one hand and the ordinary commercial transactions or regulation of rights untinged by social transformation urges on the other.
so it was laid down in the time of henry iv.
the compensation case is to be disposed of by the compensation officer within six months from today 104 1969 with intimation to this court.
it is this court which by its order dated 10 4 1969 in civil revisions 201 202 and 203 of 1968 conferred new jurisdiction on the compensation officer to deal freshly with the case and therefore notwithstanding anything contained in the act the compensation has to be calculated according to the directions given by the court 2 the court was fully aware of the statutory provision in section 262.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
under rule 131 c of the orissa estates abolition rules 1952 the compensation officer may rely upon such other materials as may otherwise be ascertained by him.
a second appeal followed before the board of revenue which was dismissed.
the take over of the forests of the appellant was effected as early as 1960 and 16 years have passed without the intermediary being out of the litigative woods.
6 unlike in case of fisheries etc.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
later revision petition were filed before the high court and g k misra j set aside the order disallowing the inclusion of the income from forests for ascertainment of compensation and directed a remand to the compensation officer.
substantially this is what has been done by the learned judge when allowing the revisions and remitting the case back to the compensation officer.
the meat of the matter the primary question agitated in the appeal lopping off the fringe issues of lesser import consists in the statutory methodology and functionaries prescribed by the act for quantifying the compensation and the compliance therewith by the statutory machinery in the case of the appellant.
