3 whatever moneys that may be required to be invested in our partnership are to be invested by the parties of the first second third fourth and seventh parts out of us and the interest at the rate of 712 per cent per annum has to be paid for the moneys that may be invested in this partnership.
therefore the first question that had to be decided by the appellate court being the court of small causes bombay and if a revision lay before the high court was whether there was any genuine partnership.
the appellant was to bring his asset being the tenancy of the premises in question for the user of the partnership.
but the question is from the three deeds itself which were examined in detail by the court of small causes and which were re examined by the high court could it be said unequivocally that there was no partnership.
it is further stated that he had filed a civil suit to dissolve the partnership and to take account and his suit was pending in city civil court.
the power to hear a revision is generally given to a superior court so that it may satisfy itself that a particular case is decided according to law.
the court of small causes considered these principles evaluated the evidence and held that there was in fact and in law a partnership.
it may be mentioned that the partnership deed exhibit 114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
it was in the second partnership deed that the appellant and his father joined the firm.
we must however guard ourselves against permitting in the guise of revision substitution of one view where two views are possible and the court of small causes has taken a particular view.
it was contended by mr mehta that there was no agency reading the partnership deeds as we have read that conclusion does not emanate from position appearing debiting the fixed amount payable to the appellant in the expenses account which also is not inconsistent with partnership.
he contended further that the suit premises was with him and the defendants nos 2 to 5 had not acquired any tenancy rights in the suit premises.
whether the appellant herein and his father had sublet the premises in question in or about 1960 in terms of section 131e of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control act1947.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit the suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine weaving works.
however on account of the death of khristi girdharbhai chimanlal on 1 2 61 and other reasons the said partnership was dissolved from 8 9 61 thereafter we the parties from the first to seventh part have after purchasing at its cost price all the debts and dues goods stock etc together with goodwill of the dissolved partnership started manufacturing and selling of neon signs tubes in partnership from 9 9 61 we the parties of all the seven parts execute the deed of the said partnership to day.
that has to be found in section 4 of the indian partnership act1932it says partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all emphasis supplied.
the power according to the learned judge was of the widest amplitude to pass such orders as the court thought fit in order to do complete justice.
there the learned judge relying on section 292 of the said act held that the revisional power with which the high court was vested under section 292 was not merely in the nature of jurisdictional control.
all these tests were borne in mind by the court of small causes bombay in the appeal from the decision of the learned trial judge.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
the legislature the learned judge felt further empowered high court in its revisional jurisdiction to pass such order with respect thereto as it thought fit.
there was an appeal before the court of small causes bombay and by judgment and order delivered by the court of small causes bombay on 18th of august1977it was held that the learned trial judge had erred in passing a decree for possession on the ground of subletting change of user and breach of terms of tenancy.
the appellate court so far as the material for the present appeal is concerned held that there was no subletting and there was only carrying on of the business in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 in the name of bharat neon signs.
this view is now concluded by the decision of this court in madras bangalore transport co west v inder singh and others1986 3 s c c 62 1986.
indlaw sc 748.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
the ambit and power of revision generally and in particular with respect to the provisions with which we are concerned have from time to time come up for consideration by this court.
1961 indlaw sc 157 supra bhagwati j observed that the ambit of section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent control act which fell for consideration in hari shanker 's case 1961 indlaw sc 157 supra was the same as section 293 of the bombay rent act and therefore he expressed the opinion that the high court could interfere only if there was miscarriage of justice due to mistake of law.
the amending provision therefore only related to procedure and not to any rights of the parties.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
if that was so there was nothing that could be clone about such a view within the ambit and scope of the power of section 292 of the rent act.
in the light of the aforesaid principles and the facts that have emerged we are of the opinion that the high court exceeded its jurisdiction under section 292 of the rent act.
section 6 of the said act reiterates that in determining whether a group of persons is or is not a firm or whether a person is or is not a partner in a firm regard shall be had to the real relation between the parties as shown by all relevant facts taken together.
the power of the high court to revise the order is contained in section 292 of the bombay rent act as applicable at the relevant time to gujarat the said provision reads as follows 292.
no further appeal shall lie against any decision in appeal under sub section 1 but the high court may for the purpose of satisfying itself that any such decision in appeal was according to law call for the case in which such decision was taken and pass such order with respect thereto as it thinks fit.
the said section reads as follows 351.
the high court may at any time call for the record of any case under this act for the purpose of satisfying itself that a decision made therein is according to law and may pass such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit.
he also referred to section 4 of the partnership act about the principles of partnership namely1 there must be agreement entered into by all the persons concerned 2 the agreement must be to share the profits of a business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
whether there was a partnership or not may in certain cases be a mixed question of law and fact in the sense that whether the ingredients of partnership as embodied in the law of partnership were there in a particular case or not must be judged in the light of the principles applicable to partnership.
in the eye of law such a clause is really non sequitur or neutral proving neither the existence nor non existence of a genuine firm.
this court in the case of bhai chand ratanshi v laxmishanker tribhavan1982 1 rent control journal 2421981.
indlaw sc 244 observed that where lower courts applied their minds properly in deciding a matter under section 132 of the bombay rent act the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence under section 292 of the act as substituted by the gujarat act 18 of 1965 this court reiterated that although the high court had wider power than that which could be exercised under section 115 of c p c yet its revisional power could only be exercised for a limited purpose with a view to satisfying itself that the decision was according to law.
the question is can the high court do so in law.
it was observed that under section 392 of the said act the high court could interfere in second appeal only if there was a substantial question of law.
this court emphasised that the distinction between an appeal and revision is a real one.
a right to appeal carries with it right of re heating on law as well as fact.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
the high court on a reappraisal of these very evidence came to the conclusion that the partnerships were camouflages and were not acted upon and in fact and in reality the partnership firm was a sub tenant of the appellant herein.
in that case the question whether the appellant was legally married no finding was necessary in the eviction suit.
supp 2 s c r 906 1962 indlaw sc 455.
this principle was reiterated in krishnawati v hans raj1974 2 s c r 524 1973 indlaw sc 208 which was dealing with section 392 of the delhi rent control act1958 in second appeal.
we must take note of a decision in the case of m s kasturbhai ramchand panchal brothers and others v firm of mohanlal nathubhai and others air 1969 gujarat 110 1967 indlaw guj 57upon which the high court had placed great reliance in the judgment under appeal.
1966the gujarat high court after dealing with the gujarat amendment act xviii of 1965 observed that the legislature has not intended to equate the ambit of the power with the one exercised in an appeal.
it is clear from the evidence on record that the partnership firm had undergone metamorphosis from time to time and again ever since the year 1960 the firm bharat neon signs first originated on 4th of october1960 as many as six persons were named in the partnership firm on or about 4th of october1960 and they had executed a deed of partnership on 13th of october1960 which is exhibit 114 on the record.
he has stated further that the suit premises were to be used for business and he could use it for any business and he joined in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 somewhere in 1961 to prepare neon signs and the defendants nos 2 to 5 were his partners and doing business in the suit premises.
nos 24 and 5 in the name of respondent no 2m s. bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
we are concerned in this appeal with only one of the premises which was involved in suit no 553 of 1969 it is not in dispute and it never was that the premises was being used by bharat neon signs firm being the defendant no 2 in the original suit.
for the purpose of the suit no 553 of 1969 with which the appeal is concerned it is relevant to state that the appellant had raised the contention that ahmedabad fine weaving works was not the tenant of the suit premies but the suit premises was tenanted by the father of the appellant girdharlal chimalal in 1938 and he was the original tenant of the premises and appellant subsequently joined the business of his father as a partner and the name of the partnership firm was ahmedabad fine weaving works.
as mentioned hereinbefore the learned trial judge consolidated both the suits and in the instant suit being no 553 of 1969 with which this appeal is concerned it was held by the learned trial judge that there was unlawful subletting.
we may mention that in gundalapalli rangamannar chetty v desu rangiah and others a i r 1954.
madras 182subba rao j as the learned chief justice then was held that there can not be a subletting unless the lessee parted with legal possession.
a i r 1972 gujarat 6 1970 indlaw guj 68 thakkar j of the gujarat high court as the learned judge then was held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession.
in the instant case the basic question is whether keeping in background the partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore and the facts that came to light was there partnership or not.
appeal allowed.
the appellate court had considered the partnership deeds.
there was an appeal filed from that decree and that appeal was also dismissed and disposed of affirming the decree for the dissolution of the partnership inter se between the parties being the partners of the said firm.
this was set aside in appeal.
the learned chief justice then was referred with approval the observations of hidayatullah j referred to hereinbefore in hari shankar 's case.
judged by that standard we are of the opinion that the high court in this case had exceeded its jurisdiction.
the first question therefore is whether the high court could do so in the facts of this case and secondly whether the high court was right in so doing.
it accordingly decreed the suit for possession instituted by the landlord.
