p c and in reply he stated galat hai not correct.
the accused has not stated during his statement under section 313 cr.
the accused appellant has been held guily of of fences punishable under section 302 and section 3762f of indian penal code.
p c the appellant preferred an appeal putting in issue his conviction and sentence.
in diameter on the appellant 's pant and of a dried stain of semen on his under pant were circumstances for too feeble to establish that the appellant raped or murdered the victim.
the accused appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
we are left with circumstance No 3 only i e recovery of underwear and baniyan stained with semen and human blood group b which alone in the fact and circumstances of the case discussed hereinabove can not form basis of conviction of the accused appellant for the offence charged.
the memo of arrest does not state the arrest of accused having been made at behror.
on seeing the case diary he stated that on 21 3 1991 the accused was definitely called twice on the same day though there is no mention of what enquiries were made from him.
bd rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr.
this piece of evidence was put to the accused during his statement under section 313 cr.
the purpose of asking questions during examination under section 313 cr.
without going into the question as to whether the statement of kalu ram pw5 is to be believed or not in view of the same having not been supported by santosh pw9 let us assess the intrinsic value of such testimony as a piece of incriminating evidence.
the fact remains that the testimony of shalu pw 7 aged 4 years even if taken at its face value does not constitute such a circumstance as to draw an incriminating inference against the accused and connect him with the crime.
see law lexicon p ramnath iyer second edition p 87. denial by an accused of an assertion made by his employer that the accused was on leave of absence from duty on the date of offence does not by any stretch of reasoning or logic amount to pleading alibi.
this is necessary to exclude the likelihood of any innocent having been picked up and branded as culprit and then the gravity of the offence arousing human sympathy persuading the mind to be carried away by doubtful or dubious circumstances treating them as of beyond doubt evidentiary value.
the criminal reference and the criminal appeal were heard by a division bench of rajasthan high court.
what is being treated as the plea of alibi by the trial court and the high court is this.
the trial court sentenced the appellant to death under section 302 ipc and to undergo rigorous imprisonment for life and pay a fine of rs 10000 in default of payment to undergo further r i for 3 years under section 3762f ipc.
thus none of the pieces of evidence relied on as incriminating by the trial court and the high court can be treated as incriminating pieces of circumstantial evidence against the accused.
in the opinion of the other learned judge the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction as recorded by the trial court though the case was not one of those rarest of rare cases as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
the trial court and the high court have proceeded on an assumption of availability of five pieces forging links in the chain of circumstantial evi dence out of which we have found as stated hereinabove four of the alleged circumstances not to be pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence at all.
the two learned judges constituting the division bench differed in their opinion.
this court held that the presence of blood stain of b group measuring 0 5 cm.
it is this testimony which has been relied upon by the trial court as also by the high court as the evidence of last seen together.
hence it could not have been held that the accused was absconding.
p c and nowhere suggested during cross examination of prosecution witnesses that at the time of the incident he was at a place wherefrom he could not have reached the place of the offence on the date and at the time of its commission.
iii recovery of underwear stained with blood and semen strangely enough the underwear and baniyan though discovered and seized on an information given by the accused and on his pointing out apparently on a statement recorded under section 27 of the evidence act have not been produced and exhibited in the court.
in the result the high court has declined the confirmation of death sentence but upheld the conviction on both the charges found proved and dismissed the appeal laying challenge to the conviction subject to modification in the sentence by substituting sentence of life imprisonment for death sentence under section 302 ipc.
to constitute evidence of last seen together the evidence must definitely permit an inference being drawn that the victim and the accused were seen together at a point of time in close proximity with the time and date of the commission of crime.
in the later case it was also held that a false explanation or false plea taken by the accused can be used as an additional link in the chain of circumstantial evidence subject to satisfication of three essential conditions namely i various links in the chain of evidence led by the prosecution have been satisfactorily proved ii the said circumstance points to the guilt of the accused with reasonable definiteness and iii the circumstance is in proxim ity to the time and situation.
this court held as under in a case based on circumstantial evidence the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn have not only to be fully established but also that all the circumstances so established should be of a conclusive nature and consistent only with the hypoth esis of the guilt of the accused.
there is not investigation directed towards finding out and no evidence worth its name collected and adduced in the court to show that the underwear and baniyan were of the accused.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so called absconding as a piece of incrimi nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
in the opinion of one learned judge the circumstantial evidence on which rests the prosecution case was not sufficient to record a finding of guilty against the appellant on any of the charges framed against him.
the pieces of circumstantial evidence which have been found proved and held as forging an incriminating chain against the accused are as under i last seen together ii abnormal conduct of the accused iii recovery of underwear and baniyan which was found to be stained with semen and blood group b which is also the blood group of the deceased iv false plea of alibi and v accused absconding since the date of offence.
we are clearly of the opinion that the accused appellant has not taken a plea of alibi and therefore the question of finding it false and then drawing an inference adverse to him does not arise at all.
v absconding of the accused was the accused absconding at all.
at least this fact should have been mentioned in the memo of arrest even if the same was prepared at village kotputli.
he gave an evasive answer saying that the fact that shalu was accompanying s must have come in the staement of the witnesses.
at 7 25 a m on 19 3 1991 first information report was lodged by bd at police station kotputli.
shri sushil kumar jain the learned counsel for the accused appellant has placed reliance on shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra air 1981.
sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
therein a charge under sections 376 and 302 ipc was sought to be substantiated on circumstanctial evidence.
i last seen together on the point of last seen together there is solitary testimony of a child witness shalu pw7 aged about 4 years on 23 3 1992 the date of her examination in the court.
at about 7 a m on 19th march 1991 kishori lal pw4 informed bd pw2 the unfortunate father of s that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
the statement of shahu was recorded during investigation on 25 3 1991 i e about six days after the date of incident.
on 4 4 1991 he was medically examined.
in dhananjoy chatterjee 's case 1994 indlaw sc 1743 supra the decision of this court in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 was relied on.
kumari s a young child aged about 5 years was last seen at about 4 p m on 18th march 1991 and thereafter she did not return home.
in dhananjoy chatterjee v state of west bengal 1994 2 scc 220 1994 indlaw sc 1743 wherein one of us dr a s anand j as his lordship then was spoke for the bench.
secondly harish chand sharma himself states that between 19 3 1991 and 25 3 1991 the ac cused was called several times at the police station and on 21 3 1991 itself he was called twice in a day.
in view of the difference of opinion the learned acting chief justice assigned the case for hearing by a third judge under section 392 of cr.
before parting with the case we would like to place on record an observation of ours touching an aspect of the case.
appeals allowed.
the prosecution case depends on circumstantial evidence.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
the appeals are allowed.
