we may however point out that even in cases where the facts are not all admitted or beyond dispute there is a considerable unanimity that the courts can in exercise of their discretion refuse certiorari prohibition mandamus or injunction even though natural justice is not followed.
in bar council of india v high court of kerala 2004 6 scc 311 2004 indlaw sc 340it was stated principles of natural justice however cannot be stretched too far.
dated 11 9 97 annexure a2 to the writ petition appointing 4 persons to the post of mandol are perused by me minutely.
temp i please read as august97 in place of october97 occurring in the 4th line of this government order no 21593 comrev.
the xerox copy of the cyclostyled appointment order bearing no 11497.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
wade says that while futile writs may not be issued a distinction has to be made according to the nature of the decision.
the said shri tayeng retired on 28 02 1998 despite the fact that he in his uo note dated 12 02 1998 addressed to the minister of revenue denied to have made any appointment when approached by the writ petitioners respondents he affirmed in their support an affidavit in the high court stating 3 that while i was functioning as revenue commissioner manipur matters relating to appointment on the recommendation of the d p c transfer etc were put up to me in files and i used to pass order on the basis of facts presented to me in file.
the appointing authority in absence of any delegation of power having been made in that behalf was the state government.
the commissioner allegedly made certain appointments in the posts of mandols process servers and zilladars which was not within the knowledge of the state.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
since i have retired from service i have no access to the file and do not know what might have been in the file and where is the file.
it is in these circumstances that this court held that the wholesale termination of their services was arbitrary and violative of art 14 of the constitution.
the renewal of their further term again depends upon the quality of work and conduct capacity as a lawyer professional conduct public reputation in general and character and integrity as certified by the district magistrate and the district judge.
for the said purpose the district magistrate and the district judge are required to maintain a character roll and a record of the work done by the officer and the capacity displayed by him in discharge of the work.
their application may be subject to the provisions of a statute or statutory rule.
his work is also subject to strict supervision.
the question which arose herein was not raised.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on parshotam lal dhingra v union of india.
the offers of appointment were cancelled not on the ground that some irregularities had been committed in the process of recruitment but on the ground that they had been non est in the eye of law.
in m c mehta v union of india and others 1999 6 scc 237 1999 indlaw sc 1396this court developed the useless formality theory stating more recently lord bingham has deprecated the useless formality theory in r v. chief constable of the thames valley police forces ex p cotton by giving six reasons see also his article should public law remedies be discretionary.
this too is relevant for deciding the question of arbitrariness alleged in the present case.
if such appointment orders are a nullity the question of observance of principles of natural justice would not arise.
v kothampatti muniyandavar temple by trustee pappathi ammal.
the respondents had not been validly appointed and in that view of the matter the question of their case being considered for promotion and or recruitment by the dpc did not and could not arise.
s b sanyal learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would submit that the question as to whether the appointments of the respondents were nullities or not having not been raised before the high court this court should not permit the appellants to raise the said contention at this stage.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on kendriya vidyalaya sangathan and others v ajay kumar das and others 2002 4 scc 503 2002 indlaw sc 287.
it was argued that the question as to whether appointments were made without the knowledge of the department or for that matter whether any record was available there for was of not much significance as in effect and substance they lead to the same inference and in that view of the matter the decision of this court in mohinder singh gill 1977 indlaw sc 53 supra was not attracted.
in parshotam lal dhingra 1957 indlaw sc 103.
suprathis court held that whoever holds civil posts would be entitled to protection of their services in terms of cl 2 of art 309 of the constitution of india in the event any disciplinary action is taken against them stating the underlying idea obviously is that a provision like this will ensure to them a certain amount of security of tenure.
it is true that where appointments had been made by a competent authority or at least some steps have been taken in that behalf the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with in view of the decision of this court in murugayya udayar 1991 indlaw sc 904 supra.
whereas in the impugned order the appointments of the respondents were said to have been passed without the knowledge of the administrative department revenue department in the counter affidavit it was stated that no records were available in respect thereof and thus the said plea being inconsistent with each other the orders of cancellation of appointment would be bad in law in the light of a decision of this court in mohinder singh gill and anr v. chief election commissioner delhi and ors air 1978 sc 851 1977 indlaw sc 53.
however it was observed however it is further made clear that the state respondent are at liberty to initiate or take up any appropriate legal action in the matter pertaining to their alleged fake appointments in their respective posts in accordance with law and pass necessary order after affording reasonable opportunity of being heard to them.
in kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 suprathis court was dealing with a question in regard to continuance of the law officers.
as stated above i was transferred and posted to the manipur electronics development corporation during 1997.
4 that after my retirement some of the writ petitioners civil rule no 568 of 1998came to me and show copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit of the respondent no 12 and 3 i have gone through the copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit and annexures thereto.
those expressions it is urged have been taken from the service rules where they were used to denote the three major punishments and it is submitted that those expressions should be read and understood in the same sense and treated as words of article in dhirender singh and others v state of haryana and others 1997 2 scc 712 1996 indlaw sc 1725termination of an order of promotion in favour of the appellant was not interfered with by this court as the same had not been approved by the dig being the competent authority.
the respondents herein filed writ petitions before the high court on 4 06 1998 questioning the said order of cancellation of their appointments.
we may on the other hand notice that kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 supra has been distinguished by this court in state of u p and others v u p state law officers association and others 1994 2 scc 204 1994 indlaw sc 1289 stating the reliance placed by the respondents in this behalf on shrilekha vidyarthi v state of u p 1990 indlaw sc 463 is misplaced for the obvious reason that the decision relates to the appointment of the district government counsel and the additional assistant district government counsel who are the law officers appointed by the state government to conduct civil criminal and revenue cases in any court other than the high court.
the writ petitions filed by the respondents herein were allowed by a learned single judge of the high court opining i the principles of natural justice having not been complied with the impugned orders can not be sustained.
thus in relation to cases other than those relating to admitted or indisputable facts there is a considerable divergence of opinion whether the applicant can be compelled to prove that the outcome will be in his favour or he has to prove a case of substance or if he can prove a real likelihood of success or if he is entitled to relief even if there is some remote chance of success.
mr jaideep gupta learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants would submit that the high court went wrong in passing the impugned judgment insofar as it failed to take into consideration that in a case of this nature it was not necessary to comply with the principles of natural justice.
the learned counsel would submit that even in a case of this nature it was incumbent upon the appellants to comply with the principles of natural justice.
the honourable minister revenuei am to say that i am not all aware of such appointments made by me except for 3 lambus who were kept in panel for appointment and accordingly the s o revenue.
we in the facts and circumstances of this case do not see any arbitrariness on the part of the state in its action directing cancellation of appointments.
appeal allowed.
it will be noted that in cl 1 the words dismissed and removed have been used while in cl 2.
the words dismissed removed and reduced in rank have been used.
what then is the meaning of those expressions dismissed removed or reduced in rank.
the writ appeals preferred there against by the appellants herein were dismissed.
