learned counsel for the respondent state on the other hand supported the impugned judgment of the high court.
rule 18 provides that where such petitions are filed against orders of the tribunals or authorities specified in rule 18 of chapter xvii of the appellate side rules or against decrees or orders of courts specified in that rule they shall be heard and finally disposed of by a single judge.
when a combined application u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution is summarily dismissed without reasons the appeal court may consider whether the facts alleged warranted filing of the application u art 226 or u art 227 of the constitution.
madon j speaking for the court made the following pertinent observations petitions are at times filed both u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution.
it is true as submitted by learned counsel for the appellant that the order of the learned single judge nowhere stated that the court was considering the writ petition u art 226 of the constitution of india.
in a proceeding under that article the person authority or state against whom the direction order or writ is sought is a necessary party.
in appropriate cases the high court while exercising supervisory jurisdiction may substitute such a decision of its own in place of the impugned decision as the inferior court or tribunal should have made.
u art 226 an order direction or writ is to issue to a person authority or the state.
it is also necessary to note that the appellant being the respondent in letters patent appeal joined issues on merits and did not take up the contention that the letters patent appeal was not maintainable.
point 1 is therefore answered in the affirmative against the appellant and in favour of the respondent.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of this court is very clear and the conclusions of the high court that merely limitation was waived is contrary to the clear terms of the earlier order of this court.
under these circumstances it is not possible to agree with the contention of learned counsel for the appellant that the learned single judge had refused to interfere only u art 227 of the constitution of india when he dismissed the writ petition of the respondent.
s 2 of the act reads as follows 21.
an appeal shall lie from a judgment or order passed by the one judge of the high court in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution of india to a division bench comprising of two judges of the same high court.
after taking the aforesaid view one course open was to set aside the order of the division bench and to remand the matter for being disposed of on merits by the division bench of the high court.
to elaborate whether the learned single judge has exercised his jurisdiction u art 226 or u art 227 or both would depend upon various aspects and many a facet as has been emphasized in the afore quoted decisions of the apex court.
since the impugned order is passed by a learned single judge.
in the present case the division bench was clearly wrong in holding that the appeal was not maintainable against the order of the learned single judge.
consequently it could not be said that cl 15 of the letters patent was not attracted for preferring appeal against the judgment of the learned single judge.
phraseology used in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution in s 2 of the act can not be given a restricted and constricted meaning because an order passed in a writ petition can tantamount to an order u art 226 or 227 of the constitution of india and it would depend upon the real nature of the order passed by the learned single judge.
the right of appeal against the judgment of a single judge is given by the letters patent which have been continued in force by art 225 of the constitution.
for determining the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment of the single judge the division bench has to find out whether in substance the judgment has been passed by the learned single judge in exercise of the jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution.
thereafter this court explained the ratio laid down in the case of umaji 's case1986 indlaw sc 651 supra and expressed thus in umaji case it was clearly held that where the facts justify a party in filing an application either u art 226 or 227 of the constitution of india and the party chooses to file his application under both these articles in fairness of justice to party and in order not to deprive him of valuable right of appeal the court ought to treat the application as being made under article 226and if in deciding the matter in the final order the court gives ancillary directions which may pertain to article 227this ought not to be held to deprive a party of the right of appeal under cl 15 of the letters patent where the substantial part of the order sought to be appealed against is u art 226 rule 18 of the bombay high court appellate side rules read with cl 15 of the letters patent provides for appeal to the division bench of the high court from a judgment of the learned single judge passed on a writ petition u art 226 of the constitution.
the word finally used in rule 18 of chapter xvii of the appellate side rules does not and can not possibly have the effect of barring a right of appeal conferred by the letters patent.
the high court was therefore not justified in holding that this court 's earlier order only waived the limitation for filing a letters patent appeal.
the interim order passed by this court shall continue for the aforesaid purpose.
in this connection it is profitable to have a look at the decision of this court in the case of umaji keshao meshram v radhikabai 1986 supp.
that being so the mere fact that the writ petition was styled u art 227 of the constitution is of no consequence.
a series of decisions of this court has firmly established that a proceeding u art 226 is an original proceeding and when it concerns civil rights it is an original civil proceeding see for instance state of u p v. vijay anand maharaj.
the findings of the rent controller and resident deputy collector were set aside on the question of habitual defaulter as well as on the ground of bona fide need.
in addition a bare reading of this court 's earlier order shows that the impugned order is clearly erroneous.
as we have seen above an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 226 is not barred while cl 15 itself bars an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 227. in sushilabai laxminarayan mudliyar v nihalchand waghajibhai shaha 1993 supp 1 scc 11 1991 indlaw sc 718.
this court with reference to an unreported judgment in ratnagiri district central co operative bank ltd v. dinkar kashinath watve 1989 indlaw sc 421c a no 520 of 1989 decided on 27 1 1989 held as follows even when in the cause title of an application both art 226 and art 227 of the constitution have been mentioned the learned single judge is at liberty to decide according to facts of each particular case whether the said application ought to be dealt with only u art 226 of the constitution.
in mangalbhai ors v. radhyshyam dr air 1993 sc 806 1992 indlaw sc 509 it was inter alia observed as follows the learned single judge in his impugned judgment dated december 111987 nowhere mentioned that he was exercising the powers u art 227 of the constitution.
the normal remedy is to file a letters patent appeal.
these words were not intended to bar a right of appeal.
the judicial committee held in their lordships opinion any original civil jurisdiction possessed by the high court and not in express terms conferred by the letters patent or later enactments falls within the description of ordinary original civil jurisdiction.
provided that no such appeal shall lie against an interlocutory order or against an order passed in exercise of supervisory jurisdiction u art 227 of the constitution of india.
in lokmat newspapers p shankarprasad 1999 6 scc 275 1999 indlaw sc 587.
it was observed as follows it is therefore obvious that the writ petition invoking jurisdiction of the high court both u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution had tried to make out a case for the high court 's interference seeking issuance of an appropriate writ of certiorari u art 226 of the constitution of india.
the earlier order passed by this court dated 22 8 2006 reads as follows heard.
in umaji keshao meshram v radhikabai air 1986 sc 1272 1986 indlaw sc 651.
it was noted as follows.
co ltd v. ram tahel ramnand air 1972 sc 1598 1972 indlaw sc 378.
thus in the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case the pleadings of the parties in the writ petition and the judgment of the learned single judge leaves no manner of doubt that it was an order passed u art 226 of the constitution and in that view of the matter the letters patent appeal was maintainable before the high court.
jj considered the very same question in the light of cl 15 of the letters patent of the bombay high court.
as has been held in the case of surya devi rai supra a writ of certiorari can be issued u art 226 of the constitution against an order of a tribunal or an order passed by the sub ordinate court.
in exercise of supervisory jurisdiction the high court may not only quash or set aside the impugned proceedings judgment or order but it may also make such directions as the facts and circumstances of the case may warrant maybe by way of guiding the inferior court or tribunal as to the manner in which it would now proceed further or afresh as commended to or guided by the high court.
however taking in view the fact that this litigation is going on for nearly a decade and also the fact that even the learned single judge in his impugned order dated december 111987 had remanded the case to the rent controller we considered it proper in the interest of justice to hear the appeal on merits against the judgment of the learned single judge.
we have heard learned counsel for the parties at length on the merits of the case.
the aforesaid decision squarely gets attracted on the facts of the present case.
it will depend upon factual matrix of the case.
the high court construed as if this court has only waived the limitation for filing of letters patent appeal and there was no direction to consider the case on merits.
the nature of the exercise of the power under article 226however remains the same as in the case of the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts.
