b on receipt of such notice of opposition the controller shall by order in writing constitute a board to be known as the opposition board consisting of such officers as he may determine and refer such notice of opposition along with the documents to that board for examination and submission of its recommendations to the controller.
on 14 6 2000 j mitra company pvt ltd.
3 appellant herein filed its application for grant of patent.
further according to the appellantpre grant opposition was filed by respondent no 3 under s 251 on 21 3 05 according to the appellant though the patents amendment act2005amended s 25 by enacting the amendment on 4 4 05 the said amendment was brought into force w e f 1 1 2005 and therefore it was open to respondent no 3 to challenge the grant of patent by invoking s 252 of the patents act1970 according to the appellant with the change in the structure of the act providing for only one statutory appeal and that too only against the order granting patent under s 254the appeal filed by respondent no 3 against pre grant opposition order was not maintainable on 19 10 06 by which time as stated above s 25 stood restructured providing for a dichotomy between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
1 at any time within four months from the date of advertisement of the acceptance of a complete specification under this act or within such further period not exceeding one month in the aggregate as the controller may allow on application made to him in the prescribed manner before the expiry of the four months aforesaid any person interested may give notice to the controller of opposition to the grant of the patent on any of the following grounds namely a that the applicant for the patent or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim i in any specification filed in pursuance of an application for a patent made in india on or after the 1st day of january1912 or ii in india or elsewhere in any other document provided that the ground specified in sub cl ii shall not be available where such publication does not constitute an anticipation of the invention by virtue of sub s 2 or sub s 3 of section 29 that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the applicant 's claim and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the applicant 's claim a that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.
the substituted s 25 reads as under 25 opposition to the patent 1. where an application for a patent has been published but a patent has not been granted any person may in writing represent by way of opposition to the controller against the grant of patent on the ground a that the applicant for the patent or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim i in any specification filed in pursuance of an application for a patent made in india on or after the 1st day of january1912 or ii in india or elsewhere in any other document c that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the applicant 's claim and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the applicant 's claim.
3 a where any such notice of opposition is duly given under sub section 2the controller shall notify the patentee.
the said appeals would be heard and disposed of by the high court in accordance with law u s 116 of the said 1970 act as it stood on 19 10 06 the high court will hear and decide the validity of the order passed by the controller dated 23 8 06 rejecting pre grant opposition filed by respondent.
it may be noted that in the said amendment act2002no provision was made pertaining to post grant opposition.
according to the appellant with the change in s 25 brought about by patents amendment act2005a dichotomy was introduced in the patents act1970 according to the appellant that dichotomy was between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
this is what has exactly happened in this case resulting into utter confusion with regard to pending fao no 29306 filed by respondent no 3 in the high court u s 116 of the indian patents.
5 while passing an order under sub s 4 in respect of the ground mentioned in cl d or cl e of sub section.
therefore the legislature intended an appeal under section 117a2 to the appellate board from any decision order or direction of the controller inter alia under s 254 which refers to the power of the controller to maintain amend or revoke the patent.
it stood on 19 10 06 under the patents amendment act1999 on that date the amended section 117a suggested by patents amendment act2005was not brought into force.
sub section 2for the words and figures section 20section 25section 27section 28the words figures and brackets section 20sub s 4 of section 25section 28 shall be substituted.
66sub s 3 of section 69section.
emphasis supplied by us.
2the controller shall not take into account any personal document or secret trial or secret use.
provision is also at times made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
at times provision is made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant 's claim f that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act g that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed h that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source or geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is anticipated having regard to the knowledge oral or otherwise available within any local or indigenous community in india or elsewhere but on no other ground and the controller shall if requested by such person for being heard hear him and dispose of such representation in such manner and within such period as may be prescribed.
on 19 10 2006 when fao no 29306 was filed in the high court chapter xix of the parent act as amended vide patents amendment.
ss 116 and 117a were reworded which read as under s 116 1 subject to the provisions of this act the appellate board established u s 83 of the trade marks act1999 shall be the appellate board for the purposes of this act and the said appellate board shall exercise the jurisdiction power and authority conferred on it by or under this act.
c every opposition board constituted under cl b shall conduct the examination in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.
an act can not be said to commence or to be in force unless it is brought into operation by legislative enactment or by the exercise of authority by a delegate empowered to bring it into operation.
the provisions of the said amendment act2002however were not simultaneously brought into force.
section 117 g of the principal act was substituted vide patents amendment act2005 it reads as under section 117g transfer of pending proceedings to appellate board all cases of appeals against any order or decision of the controller and all cases pertaining to revocation of patent other than on a counter claim in a suit for infringement and rectification of register pending before any high court shall be transferred to the appellate board from such date as may be notified by the central government in the official gazette and the appellate board may proceed with the matter either de novo or from the stage it was so transferred.
provided that the technical member of the appellate board for the purposes of this act shall have the qualifications specified in sub s 2.
this amended section 117 g was also brought into force vide notification dated 3 4 2007 under notes on clauses attached to the statement of objects and reasons it has been clarified vide cl 62.
that amended s 117 g is consequential to the enforcement of the jurisdiction of the appellate board u s 64 which results to revocation of patent.
however on that date appeal against pre grant opposition order was maintainable under section 116to the high court and therefore there is no merit in the argument advanced on behalf of the appellant that the first appeal filed by respondent no 3 was misconceived that it is true that s 25 got restructured w e f 1 1 2005however such restructuring did not obliterate the first appeal filed by respondent no 3 on 19 10 2006.
and lastly it was argued on behalf respondent no 3 that the appellant had filed its application for grant of patent on 14 6 2000it was notified on 20 11 04however respondent no 3 had filed its pre grant opposition under s 251 on 21 3 05 when the patents amendment act2005 was not promulgated it was promulgated on 4 4 05 and therefore according to respondent no 3 its pre grant opposition filed on 21 3 05 was valid and proper as respondent no 3 could not have invoked s 252 proceedings on that day namely21 3 05 as the law stood enacted bringing in s 252 only on 4 4 05 in the peculiar circumstances of this case it was urged on behalf of respondent no 3 that no interference is called for by this court in this batch of civil appeals.
act2002on 4 4 2005.
the legislature enacted the patents amendment act2005 even here not all provisions were simultaneously brought into force.
vide cl 47 of notes on clauses attached to the statement of objects and reasons it has been clarified that s 64 is also amended vide patents amendment act2005 to confer wider jurisdiction on the appellate board in matters of revocation of patent therefore amended section 117 g which is brought into force only from 3 4 2007 dealt with transfer of pending proceedings from the high court to the appellate board.
however the legislature intended that there shall be only one statutory appeal against grant of patent.
we quote herein below ss 25 and 116 as it stood in the year 2000 under the patents amendment act1999 which read as under s 25 opposition to grant of patent.
this section was not brought into force till 2 4 2007.
in short by the patents amendment act2005for the first time a dichotomy was introduced in the patent law between opposition to the pre grant and opposition to the post grant of patent.
however s 25 was brought into force vide notification dated 20 5 2003 even as on 20 5 2003 vide s 25 only one right to oppose a patent at the pre grant stage was available and appeal against an order passed by the earlier lay before the high court under the then existing s 116 of the patents.
w e f 1 1 2005 but when it came to filing of first appeal for some unknown reasons the amended section 117a which provided for only one statutory appeal and that too against post grant orders passed by the controller was not brought into force.
the ground of challenge under s 251 is identical to s 252 of the said 1970 act.
the appellate board after 2 4 07 is entitled to hear appeals only arising from orders passed by the controller under s 254i e. in cases of orders passed in post grant opposition.
applying the above tests to the present case we find that by patents amendment act2005 for the first time a dichotomy was inserted in the patent law by providing vide s 251 for opposition to pre grant and vide s 25 2 for opposition to post grant of patent.
2 where any such notice of opposition is duly given the controller shall notify the applicant and shall give to the applicant and the opponent an opportunity to be heard before deciding the case.
in 2002the legislature desired an amendment to the law and intended to create an appellate forum to hear appeals against orders passed by the controller consequently patents amendment.
here also s 25 of the patents act1970 as amended by patents amendment act2005.
under the patents amendment act2005appeal is provided to the appellate board against the order of the controller under s 254 however that statutory appeal is maintainable only in post grant opposition proceedings whereas respondent no 3 herein has instituted first appeals under the law then prevailing challenging the order rejecting pre grant opposition dated 23 8 06.
taking into account the complexities involved in this case on account of a hiatus created by reason of the law not being brought into force in time we are of the view that the first appeals filed by respondent no 3 in the high court being fao.
act1970 for the reason that the amended ss 116 and 117a were not brought into force.
this is the controversy which needs to be resolved in this case.
according to the appellant on 23 8 06 the controller rejected its pre grant opposition and on that day post grant opposition avenue was open to respondent no 3 vide s 252 according to the appellant under the amended s 25 on rejection of pre grant opposition it was open to respondent.
e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the claim h that the patentee has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of a patent granted on convention application the application for patent was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country or in india by the patentee or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source and geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was anticipated.
