prima facie therefore appellant has been held to be the registered owner of the trade mark.
in the suit only the competing right of the first respondent qua the appellant can be determined and not a right against m s such a right can not be determined in a proceeding under s 461b of the act which is restricted to non user of the registered trade mark.
it would appear that neither the u k act nor the indian act at any time envisaged that the commencement of 5 year period of non use is to be delinked from the date of registration of the mark so as to give a fresh lease of life to the registration every time there is change in the ownership of the mark.
this is intended to prevent the registered proprietor to by pass the act by such token use after he comes to know that an application for removal is about to be filed sub cl 3 protects a mark from being removed from the register on ground of non use if such non use is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade.
before adverting thereto we may take notice of the relevant statutory provisions ss 461b481482 and 56 read as under section 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use 1 subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub s 3 of s 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application u cl a or cl b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevent date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
such an application may be maintainable in terms of s 56 of the act but strictly not in terms of s 461b thereof and that too in the absence of the original registered proprietor.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s. jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
one of the stipulations contained therein reads as under that the party of the second part has satisfied the party of the first part of having used the mark field marshal in respect of centrifugal pumps and valves since 1973.
indisputably first respondent filed an application under section 4656 and 107 of the act marked as c o no 9 of 1986contending that m s jain industries having not used the trade mark in respect of centrifugal pumps for a period more than five years and one month the mark should be taken off the register.
the notice was served upon the respondent 1a reply has been filed by m s thakural mechanical works bringing out there in that they are now the registered proprietors of said.
the tribunal may in any proceeding under this section decide any question that may be necessary or expedient to decide in connection with the rectification of the register.
the same is an assignable right in terms of s 36 of the act whereas an unregistered trade mark is not.
it confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
the power to rectify the register conferred by this section shall include the power to remove a trade mark registered in part a of the register to part b of the register.
the high court on the other hand opined it was not anybody 's case before us that m s jain industries.
it was not lost by reason of assignment as was contended by the learned counsel.
registrar of trade marks under section 4656 and 107 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 for rectification of entry relating to the registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 after.
so long as the right to assign a registered trade mark remains valid once the same is validly assigned the assignee derives the same right as that of the assignor in terms of the statute.
let the statement of learned counsel for the petitioner be recorded.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
statement of shri hemant singh counsel for m s thakural mechanical works without oath.
b defendants shall mention the name of the defendant firm thukral mechanical works sirhind on each and every centrifugal pump manufactured by them and sold in the name of field marshal.
the said order of the division bench is under challenge in this appeal.
c the defendants shall maintain proper accounts of the sale of centrifugal pumps under the trade mark field marshal and shall file them in court as and when directed.
this clause corresponds to s 46 of the existing act and provides for removal of a trade mark from the register on the ground of non use.
m s
jain industries got itself registered and obtained periodical renewal thereof as is required under the act.
it is in the aforementioned situation we are called upon to determine the meaning of the words for the time being occurring in s 461b of the act.
s 37 the assignor can not obviously transfer more rights than he himself has to the assignee under the act.
the court while construing a statute takes into consideration the parliamentary intent in amending the provisions thereof.
whether s 461b read with s 48 of the act would bring within its purview not only a registered proprietor but also the proprietor who had otherwise acquired a right would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
the permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the proprietor thereof and shall be deemed not to be used by a person other than the proprietor for the purposes of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.
s 46 is a penal provision.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
whereas s 46 had a limited application s 56 of the act is wider in nature.
it must however be observed that whether a use is for bona fide purpose would essentially be a question of fact.
the second contention of mr that the appellant was an infringer of the trade mark is again a question of fact.
it therefore can be taken away only when the conditions laid down therefor are satisfied.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances co ors 2008 8 scale 354 2008 indlaw sc 1395this court held we do not find any force in the aforementioned submission.
it was observed that in cases of intermittent use also cl b shall apply.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
it may mean the moment or existing position as was held by this court in the case of jivendra nath kaul v collector district magistrate and anr 1992.
the question of maintainability of the second suit is absence of the registrant proprietor was not and could not have been the subject matter of consent at that stage.
both the findings of the high court which we have noticed hereinbefore are findings on question of law and in that view of the matter
the contention of mr sudhir chandra that the merit of the matter is yet to be gone into by the board can not be a ground for ignoring the submissions made at the bar.
in the case of american home products corporation v mac laboratories pvt ltd.
rendered under the 1958 act it was held by the supreme court that the person seeking to have the trade mark removed from the register has only to prove.
v addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under s 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in s 56 for canceling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
the injunction matter in suit no 2408 of 1985 came up for hearing before a learned single judge of the high court.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
maharana shri bhagwat singhji bahadur of udaipur v union of india and anr air 1971.
sc 530 1970 indlaw sc 300 para 88 to mean by the use of the expression for the time being in cl 22 of art 366.
the president is not invested with authority to accord a temporary recognition to a ruler nor with authority to recognize or not to recognize a ruler arbitrarily the expression for them time being predicts that there shall be a ruler of the indian state that if the first recognized ruler dies or ceases to be a ruler a successor shall be appointed and that there shall not be more rulers than one at a given time.
in the said c o no 9 of 1986 filed by the first respondent against m s jain industries despite service of notice nobody appeared on behalf of the defendant 16 1 1987 was the date fixed in the said suit.
the cause of action therefor was stated to have arisen in the following circumstances that the cause of action for the present petition arose in favour of the petitioner and against the respondents in the month of january 1987 when the respondent informed this honourable court that they have been recorded as subsequent proprietors of the impugned registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 in c o no 9 of 1986whereupon the petitioner withdrew the said earlier petition c o no 9 of 1986 with permission of the court to file the present petition because of the changed circumstances.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
3 scc 576 1992 indlaw sc 1107 or in the context of cl 22 of art 366 of the constitution as has been held in h h maharajadhiraja.
it provides for civil or evil consequences.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
sub s 3 covers a case falling within cl b and not the cl a thereof.
but then such a case has to be made out.
thus a case of speculative assignment is specifically required to be made out.
concededly cl a of sub s 1 of s 46 is not attracted in the case.
for the purpose of making out such a case both the original registrants as also the assignee were required to be impleaded as parties.
the core question which arises for our consideration is as to whether in the aforementioned facts and circumstances of the case the application under s 461b was maintainable.
the principle of purchaser of a property has a duty to make enquiriestherefore cannot apply in a case of this nature.
it is set aside accordingly.
counsel 's fee assessed at rs 100000.
appeal allowed.
the said application was dismissed.
