the facts of the case are as under.
jora singh accompanied by gurdeep singh pw3 thereupon rushed to ujjagar singh 's house and found mukhtiar kaur lying dead with a gun shot injury and the appellant also with a gun shot injury lying unconscious on the ground in the adjoining room.
jora singh and gurdeep singh immediately removed ujjagar singh to the civil hospital dhuri in the jeep belonging to kulwant singh pw4.
the facts as narrated were that arjan singh of village bangawali had three sons puran singh ujjagar singh appellant and ajmer singh.
puran singh had died about 20 years earlier leaving behind his wife two sons and a daughter mukhtiar kaur.
having recorded the aforesaid facts in the fir pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh reached the place of incident and lifted one spent 12 bore cartridge case shaktiman make from near mukhtiar kaur 's dead body and one dbbl gun from the place where ujjagar singh appeared to have been shot and another spent cartridge case was recovered from the right barrel of the gun.
after completion of the investigation at the spot mukhtiar kaur 's dead body was sent for its post mortem examination.
balwinder singh pw9 however supported the prosecution case deposing that the land had in fact been got transferred from gurmail kaur mother of mukhtiar kaur to ujjagar singh by fraud and mukhtiar kaur was therefore entitled to its return.
the prosecution also relied on the statements of dr vijay kumar pw6 of the civil hospial dhuri who testified that the appellant had been brought to the hospital at about 2 45 p m on 10 11 2002 with a serious gun shot injury dr ripan miglani pw15 of the dayanand medical college hospital ludhiana who deposed that he had been admitted to the department of neuro surgery with a serious gun shot injury and dr sanjay uppal pw16 a plastic surgeon who disclosed that the appellant had been under his treatment for almost 5 weeks and the burnt area around the firearm injury had been removed by him.
the prosecution case was then put to the accused and his statement recorded section.
i have not killed mukhtiar kaur.
mother of mukhtiar kaur got the land mutated by her own free will and mukhtiar kaur had no dispute about it.
therefore i could not see what had happened to mukhtiar kaur as she was in other room.
the trial court and the high court relying on the circumstances available on the evidence convicted and sentenced the appellant as already mentioned above.
mr goburdhan the learned counsel for the accused has raised several arguments in the course of hearing.
he has also pointed out that there were no eye witnesses to the incident and the 4 witnesses i e jora singh and others who had reached the place of incident and carried the injured appellant to the hospital had also resiled and as the prosecution story now rested on circumstantial evidence alone it was imperative for the investigating officer to have taken the finger prints from the weapon and that in any case the recovery of the spent cartridges and the gun were clearly suspicious as the weapon had been sent to the laboratory after an inordinate delay.
it has also been submitted that in a case of attempted suicide a firearm must of necessity be used from a very close range and the absence of any blackening charring or burning around the wound on ujjagar singh clearly ruled out the possibility of such an attempt.
it has finally been submitted that the land had been transferred in the name of ujjagar singh 's sons in the year 1994 by gurmail kaur mother of mukhtiar kaur by a collusive decree and there was no evidence to show that mukhtiar kaur had ever displayed any unhappiness or made any complaint to any person or any authority with regard to the decree and as such the very basis of the prosecution story did not exist.
the learned state counsel has however supported the judgment of the courts below.
there is however absolutely no evidence to suggest even assuming that the intercourse had been committed by the appellant that he had done so without mukhtiar kaur 's consent or against her will.
some suspicions of rape could perhaps have been raised had some tell tale injuries been detected on mukhtiar kaur 's person but we find that the two injuries other than the gun shot wounds i e injury no 3 being on the left pinna and.
the learned state counsel relying on the statement of pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh has however submitted that the examination had not been possible as the appellant had received a very serious gun shot injury and was hanging between life and death.
but we see no justification in the omission of the prosecution to have him examined after he had recovered his health and been discharged from hospital.
we therefore find that ujjagar singh 's conviction section 376 of the ipc can not be sustained.
mr goburdhan has placed great emphasis on the fact that as the four witnesses who had reached the place of incident i e jora singh satnam singh gurdeep singh and kulwant singh had resiled from their statements and had disowned their initial stories the prosecution had of necessity to rely on circumstantial evidence and if the chain of circumstances remained incomplete or even if one link in the chain was broken the prosecution must fail.
the learned state counsel has however emphasized that both the trial court and the high court had for good reasons opined that the circumstances made out a case for conviction and the accused having given a counter version some obligation lay on him as well to explain the circumstances against him inasmuch that admittedly he and the victim were alone in the house at the time of the incident.
in mahmood v state of u p 1976 1 scc 542 1975 indlaw sc 643 it has been observed that in a case dependent wholly on circumstantial evidence the court must be satisfied athat the circumstances from which the inference of guilt is to be drawn have been fully established by unimpeachable evidence beyond a shadow of doubt bthat the circumstances are of a determinative tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused and cthat the circumstances taken collectively are incapable of explanation on any reasonable hypothesis save that of the guilt sought to be proved against him.
1998 9 scc 81 1997 indlaw sc 1403 sudama pandey ors v state of bihar 2002 1 scc 679 2001 indlaw sc 21243 and r r khanna reddy anr.
it is in this background that we must examine the circumstances in the present case.
first the place of incident being adjoining rooms in the residential house of the appellant and the fact that the alleged murder weapon is his licensed dbbl gun is proved on record.
it is also clear from the evidence that the two spent cartridge cases recovered one from near mukhtiar kaur 's dead body and the second from the right barrel of the gun lying near the appellant had been sent to the forensic science laboratory which opined that one of the cartridges had been fired from the gun and the other could have been fired therefrom.
mr goburdhan has however laid great emphasis on the fact that no reference to the gun or cartridges had been made in the inquest report and that in any case the weapon and the spent cartridges had been sent to the laboratory belatedly.
pjj prepared by the investigating officer inspector harjinder pal singh pw14 on 10th november 2002 that the weapon is shown lying close to the place where the appellant had been found unconscious and a spent cartridge recovered from near the dead body of mukhtiar kaur.
it has also been submitted by mr goburdhan that there appeared to be no motive for the incident as the story about mukhtiar kaur 's unhappiness about the transfer of land to the sons of ujjagar singh sought to be proved by pw9 balwinder singh and pw10 karam singh had been disbelieved by the high court with the observation that the statements of these two witnesses could not be relied upon.
to our mind therefore this is yet another circumstance inculpating the accused.
