aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
at this stage it may be noted that the appellants herein claim to have started manufacture of biscuits in 1991 the biscuits were sold in wrapper mentioning the name of the appellantsm s.
he came to the conclusion vide his orders that the trade name meghraj was in the form of a logo printed on the wrapper of the biscuits and therefore the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 as amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 consequently the adjudicating authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992.
aggrieved by the decision of the adjudicating authority the assessee preferred appeals to the commissioner a the said appeals were rejected on the ground that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj of another manufacturer m s kay aar biscuits p ltd on their products biscuits and therefore they were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
and therefore they were entitled to exemption.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
before the commissioner ait was argued in the alternative that the logo belonged to m s.
accordingly the commissioner a dismissed the appeals.
hence these civil appeals.
by order dated 8 12 2000cegat rejected the above rectification application made by the appellants.
explanation ix defined the word brand name or trade name.
in the present case as stated above m s kay aar biscuits p ltd entered into an agreement on 22 11 89 with m s rich food products p ltd under that agreement the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd declared that his company was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
he is the director of the appellants company also.
further there is no evidence to show as to whether m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was an eligible manufacturer.
he has not been examined even on the question of alleged transfer of the trade mark in favour of the appellants.
commissioner of central excise delhi 2005 189.
elt 257 2005 indlaw sc 799sc.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
elt 225 2004 indlaw sc 996scthis court held that the assessee will not be entitled to the benefit of exemption if it uses on goods in question same similar brand name with intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person or uses the name in such manner that it would indicate such connection.
applying the above test to the facts of the present case madan verma is a common director in the two companies.
he has filed an affidavit enclosing the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000.
however in that affidavit he has not stated as to on what basis in the agreement of 23 11 89 signed by him he had declared that m s ltd is the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
before us it has been urged that m s ltd is non functional since 1 3 93 and therefore in any event appellants were entitled to use the trade mark meghraj.
discontinuation of business in respect of a product does not necessarily amount to abandonment.
abandonment of the trade mark has to be proved by the appellants in the present case.
however since retrospective nature of the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 is repeatedly being raised in this court we would like to examine the case law in this regard.
he could do the latter after complying with the other requirements of the act including the filing of a declaration of his intention to use such mark.
a person may become a proprietor of a trade mark in diverse ways.
before the deputy registrar and before mr justice shah proprietorship was claimed on the basis that the applicant was entitled to it as an importer s mark.
in many of those cases the dispute was between a foreign trader using a foreign mark in a foreign country on goods which were subsequently imported by indian importers and sold by them in this country under that very mark.
in india the mark caltex was a totally new mark for watches and allied goods.
he in fact used it in respect of watches.
emphasis supplied.
it is confined to the provisions of the trade marks act.
in a given case like the present case where there is evidence with the department of the trade mark being owned by m s ltd and where there is evidence of the appellants trading on the reputation of m s ltd which is not rebutted by the appellants assesseeissuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect can not confer the benefit of exemption notification to the assessee.
air 1965 bombay 35 1961 indlaw mum 91it has been held vide paras 27 and 30 that the trade marks act merely facilitates the mode of proof.
apparently in such a case there is no question of infringement of any right of property in a trade mark for which any relief is sought nor is there any question of passing off so that it might be necessary to enter into questions of nicety as regards whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark.
as already stated by me while referring to the observations of sir john romily it is not really necessary for me to decide in this case as to whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark for the purpose of deciding this case.
even if it is found to be necessary to decide this question as to property in a trade mark i have already pointed out that the courts of equity in england granted relief in cases of infringement of trade marks on the basis of infringement of the right of property in the trade mark.
all that was necessary for the plaintiff to prove was that he had used that mark in respect of his particular type of goods.
i have also pointed out that the statute which came to be enacted in england in 1875 and the subsequent statutes did nothing more than to embody the rights in relation to trade marks which were already laid down by the courts of equity.
as a matter of fact the statute enabled a person to have registered a mark not only which he had been using but also a mark which he proposed to use.
in cases of such marks whereas the courts of equity did require some slight user before the proprietor thereof could institute an action for infringement thereof the statute enabled the registration of such mark without any user at all because such mark being distinctive per se it was not necessary for the person applying for its registration to show that mark had acquired a reputation in the market so that it could be associated only with his goods and of nobody else.
even so far as this country is concerned the trade marks act of 1940 does not seem to have made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark as established by the courts of chancery in england.
in in re century spinning and manufacturing co ltd.
air 1947 bom 445chagla j as he then was observed in this connection as follows the question is whether in india the trade marks act of 1940 has made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark.
251937and an application for registration had been made and refused.
as regards the question whether there could be any property in a trade mark the learned judge further observed on the same page as follows again turning to s 54 of the specific relief act which deals with cases when a perpetual injunction may be granted the explanation to that section lays down that for the purpose of that section a trade mark is property.
i therefore agree with the learned advocate general that all that the trade marks act has done is to facilitate the mode of proof.
for instance under s 23 of the trade marks act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark.
as between two competitors who are each desirous of adopting such a markit is to use familiar language entirely a question of who gets there first.
gaw kan lye v saw kyone saing air 1939.
fb registration under the statute does not confer any new right to the mark claimed or any greater right than what already existed at common law and at equity without registration.
common law rights are left wholly unaffected.
according to this provision not only a person should claim to be the proprietor of a trade mark but he should prove that he had used it as such proprietor on his goods.
if these two names had stood by themselves without any further description of either of them it could be said that both kipre and co and the respondent company were jointly the owners of the mark as well as the owners of the goods to which the label was affixed.
but that is not the case.
applying the principle of deemed equivalence we may clarify that if the ssi unit wrongly affixes a trade mark of another person be it registered or not or if it uses the trade mark of an ineligible person then such default would not be eliminated by the above principle of deemed equivalence embodied in s 28 of the trade marks act1999 as that principle is based on a deeming fiction which fiction is confined only to the provisions of the trade marks act.
before concluding we may refer to the judgment of this court in the case of commissioner of central excise mumbai v bigen industries ltd 2006 197.
305 2006 indlaw sc 546 in that matter a show cause notice was issued calling upon the assessee to show cause why the exemption be not denied to the assessee.
in para 19 of the show cause notice the authority accepted the existence of a deed of assignment.
however the show cause notice denied the exemption on the ground that notification no 14083 ce did not make any distinction between a brand name owned by a person in india or abroad.
for the aforestated reasons we do not find any merit in these civil appeals.
before concluding we may point out that we do not wish to express any opinion on the subsequent events which have taken place in this case.
accordingly the civil appeals stand dismissed with no order as to costs.
appeals dismissed.
