Appeal No 513 of 1963.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated December 1961 of the Maharashtra Industrial Tribunal in Reference IT No 48 of 1961.
section V Gupte Additional Solicitor General C L Dudhia K T Sule Atiqur Rahman and K L Hathi for the appel lants.
425 M C Setalvad N V Phadke J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and Ravinder Narain for the respondent No 1.
March 24 1964.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
This appeal arises out of an industrial dispute as regards the age of retirement.
The first respondent Shaw Wallace  Co was incorporated in January 1946 as a Private Limited Company to take over the business of the partnership firm of the Shaw Wallace  Co which had been doing business in India for about 60 years.
In July.
1947 the Private Limited Company was converted into a Public Limited Company.
The Head Office of the Company is at Calcutta.
The general practice of the Company both at the Head Office and the Branch Offices appears to have been to retire its employees at the age of 55 though in certain cases the Company in its discretion permitted an employee to continue beyond that age.
In September 1959 an agreement was entered into between the Company and its employees at Calcutta under which the age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
Shortly after this the Company s employees at Bombay raised a dispute regarding their retirement age.
They claimed that no workman should be retired from service before he bad completed 60 years of age.
This dispute was ultimately referred to the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra.
Before the Tribunal the Company resisted the workmen s claim but submitted that it was agreeable to introduce for its Bombay employees provisions similar to those which had been introduced by agreement for the Calcutta employees retirement at the age of 58 subject to the employee passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
The Tribunal has directed that the age of retirement should be 58 but the Company may in its discretion and with the express or implied consent of the employee concerned continue an employee after he attains that age.
The dispute is whether it should be fixed at 58 or at 60.
It is interesting to refer in this connection to the information that has been collected by the Pay Commission 1957 59 as regards the pensionable ages prescribed under the Pension Insurance Schemes for employees generally or for industrial 426 employees and under social assistance or universal schemes in forty eight countries in 1954.
As the Pay Commission Report pointed out This is particularly remarkable considering that the countries differ widely in demographic constitution levels of economic development and climatic and social condition and it indicates a virtual unanimity of competent opinion that balancing the various factors physiological economic and social that are relevant the normal working life should continue up to the age of 60 and may well go on up to 65 years.
It is undoubtedly more useful however and indeed essential for our present purpose to examine the trends in this matter in our own country and specially in the region in which the present dispute has arisen.
If in any particular region employees have been successful in their claim for fixing the age of retirement at 60 this very success is bound to raise in others in the region similar expectations.
