Appeal from the judgment and decree dated July 27 1959 of the Allahabad High Court in Income tax Reference No 307 of 1957.
SV Gupte Solicitor General R Ganapathy Iyer and RN Sachthey for the appellant.
AV Viswanatha Sastri and SP Varma for the respondent.
This appeal pursuant to a certificate granted by the Allahabad High Court under section 66A2 of the Income tax Act hereinafter referred to as the Act is directed against the judgment of the High Court in a reference under the Act answering the question referred to it in the negative.
By a Treaty between the East India Company Nawab Asfuddaula in or about the year 1775 the province of Benaras was ceded to the British Government.
The British Government granted a sanad of Raj to Raja Chet Singh who in turn gave the Jagir of Parganas Seyedpore and Bhittery in perpetuity to Babu Ausan Singh.
It appears that in 1796 there were some disputes between Babu Ausan Singh and the Zamindars in the district and the matter was referred by the Collector of Benaras to the Board of Revenue in Calcutta.
The disputes between the Jagirdars and Zamindars ultimately ended in 1837 by a compromise between the British Government and the then Jagirdar Hat Narain Singh whereby the British Government 702 granted a pension of Rs 363228 to Babu Hat Narain Singh anal his heirs in perpetuity.
The quantum of this pension was calculated on the basis of 14th of the revenue of the Jagir.
By this arrangement the revenue or land collections of Jagir became payable by the Zamindars direct to the Government and by the grant of the pension Babu Hat Narain Singh and his successors no longer remained the proprietors of the Parganas or the Jagir and became entitled to merely a pension.
Secretary to Lt Government NWP.
The pension was paid regularly from year to year by the Government to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs.
The Income tax Officer in spite of the objection of the assessee held that it was a regular annual income of the assessee and did not fall within the category of agricultural income tax.
He observed that in fact this income arose from a statutory obligation of the Government to pay it and although the Government recouped this from the person with whom the land was settled land in the genealogical tree of Malikana appears in the second degree its immediate and effective source is the Government s statutory obligation to pay it and this obligation is not land within the meaning of Income tax Act vide CITv.
It relied on the fact that the amount which had been received by the successors of Babu Harnarain Singh varied from year to year.
The learned Additional Solicitor General on behalf of the appellant contends that according to the true interpretation of the letter dated July 7 1837 no right in the land revenue was granted to the assessee.
This Court interpreted the same letter dated July 7 1837 and came to the conclusion that the respondent did not acquire any interest in land or any land revenue.
 He therefore asked us to disregard the word pension  in the letter dated July 7 1837 and determine the real character of the payment.
The appellant will have his costs here and in the High court.
