Appeal No 801 of 1963.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated September 2 1959 of the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
T V R Tatachari for the appellants.
P Raghaviah and R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Gajendragadkar CJ.
The present appeal has been brought to this Court by special leave and it arises from a suit filed by the appellants against four respondents.
The properties involved in the suit consist of agricultural lands situated in Eragudi village Musiri taluk Tiruchirappalli district.
The original grantdeeds are not available but at the time of the settlement of the Inams in the sixties of the last century Inam title deeds were issued in favour of the family of Pachai Kandai Udayavar.
The appellants averred that the properties covered by the grant bad been granted in Inam to the original grantee burdened with the obligation of performing certain services in a Matam.
The said properties were alienated from time to time and as a result of the last alienation the appellants became entitled to them.
The appellants in the present litigation claimed a declaration about their title to the properties in suit and a permanent injunction restraining respondents 1 to 3 who claimed to be the trustees of an alleged Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple at Eragudi from interfering with their possession of the same.
Respondent No 4 is the Deputy Commissioner Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments L9Sup.
CI66 9 122 Tiruchirappalli and he has been impleaded because he has purported to appoint respondents 1 to 3 as trustees of the said alleged Temple on the 7th March 1951.
This suit No 103 of 1954 was instituted on the 13th September 1954 under section 87 of the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act No XIX of 1951 hereinafter called the Act  in the Court of the District Munsif at Turaiyur.
Respondents 1 to 3 who have been appointed as trustees of the said temple by respondent No 4 obtained a certificate from him that the properties in question belonged to the Temple and on the basis of the said certificate they had filed an application before the Magistrate having jurisdiction in the area under section 87 of the Act for possession.
Notice of this application was served on the appellants and they pleaded their own title to the properties.
The Magistrate however over ruled the claim made by the appellants and directed them to deliver possession of the properties to respondents 1 to 3.
Before this order could be executed and possession delivered to respondents 1 to 3 the appellants instituted the present suit.
Respondents 1 to 3 resisted this suit and contended that the properties in suit had not been granted to the predecessor of Pachai Kandai Udayavar as alleged by the appellants.
Their case was that the said properties had been granted to the Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple and formed part of its properties.
As trustees appointed by respondent No 4 they claimed that they were entitled to the possession of the properties.
The learned trial Judge examined the whole evidence and came to the conclusion that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam and that it was not a grant in favour of the religious endowment within the meaning of the Act.
In consequence the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
The alternative plea made by the appellants that they had acquired title to the properties by prescription was also upheld by the trial Judge.
The lower appellate Court considered three main points they were  whether the grant was in favour of Ambalathadum Pachai Kandai Udayavar whether there is a temple and whether the plaintiffs had prescribed their title to the suit properties by adverse possession.
It held that the evidence adduced by the respondents did not prove the existence of any temple in favour of which the original grant had been alleged to have been made according to them.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants  claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession the lower appellate Court found that it was evident that from the very beginning Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
The alienations must therefore be regarded only as repudiation of the trust.
The documents recite that the properties belonged to the alienors as their separate secular properties though burdened with an obligation to render service to the Matam and that shows that the transfer was effected not by the Poojaris of the temple but by persons who claimed that the properties belonged to them.
125 Mr Tatachari also argues that in applying article 144 we must assume that the possession of the alienees was adverse to the temple from the respective dates of the alienations when they were put in possession of the properties covered by the transactions in question.
The argument is that in cases falling under article 134 B the transfer made by the manager of a Hindu endowment is challenged by his successor on the ground that it was beyond the authority of the manager and such a challenge necessarily postulates that the transfer was effected by the manager as manager purporting to deal with the property as belonging to the religious endowment.
