Appeal No 381 of 1966.
 J was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J HIDAYATULLAH.
 The order was made by the Chairman of the Board Mr R C Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
Apart from the relief of quashing the order of May 19 1965 the appellants sought the  issue of a writ restraining the Company Law Board and the Inspectors from giving effect to the order dated May 19 1965 and also sought some other incidental reliefs.
Appellant No 2 was appointed Managing Director of the Company from December 5 1961 and his appointment and remuneration were approved by the Central Government on July 30 1962.
According to the appellants before entering into a collaboration agreement with Ms L A Mitchell Ltd the appellant No 2 Balasubramanian was negotiating with a German firm named Kali Chemie A G of Hanover for obtaining their collaboration.
The firm of T T Krishnamachari  Sons approached appellant No 2 for the grant of sole selling agency of the products of the plant to be established in collaboration with Kali Chemie.
Appellant No 2 did not agree to this with the result that the company s negotiations with Kali Chemie broke down.
He also wanted us to bear in mind the sequence in which certain events occurred and said that these would indicate that the former Finance Minister must have been instrumental in having an order under section 237b made by the Chairman of the Board.
We were however not impressed by this argument.
We find no substance in the argument.
Mr Setalvad said that as the appellants had made out a prima facie case of mala fides in their affidavits and as these allegations had been denied by the respondents the High Court was in error in refusing permission to the appellants to cross examine the persons who swore the affidavits on the side of the respondents.
b of section 237 requires two things 1 the opinion of the Board and 2 the existence of circumstances suggesting one or more of the matters.
i to iii.
He contends that though the opinion of the Board is subjective the existence of circumstances set out in the sub cls.
b thereof confers a discretion upon the Board to appoint an Inspector to investigate the affairs of a company.
i to iii.
He has specifically denied that it was issued at the instance of the second respondent.
b of the section may have been committed.
