CK Daphtary Attorney General NS Bindra G Rath and RN Sachthey for the appellant in all the appeals.
It consists of eight district and sessions judges two additional district and sessions judges secretary to government in law department superintendent and legal remembrancer law department deputy secretary to government in the law department member administrative tribunal and the Registrar of the Orissa High Court in all 15 in number.
The power to appoint the secretaries to the government is that of the Governor.
Under the Government of India Act 1935 the power to transfer a district judge from one post to another was that of the Governor though that power was always exercised in consultation with the High Court and by and large on the recommendation of the High Court.
In Orissa as in most of the other States that practice continued till the decision of tiffs Court in the State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad and others1.
Obviously when the Governor promulgated the Orissa Superior Judicial Service Rules 1963 he proceeded on the basis that the power to transfer the district judges and addl.
district judges from one post to another whether as a judge or to one of the posts in the secretariat was in his hands.
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
The High Court insisted that ordinarily judicial officers should not hold those posts for more than three years.
The High Court was repeatedly requesting the government to send back judicial officers working in administrative posts as district judges or as addl.
On that account there appears to have been some friction between the High Court and the gov ernment for some years past.
Thereafter he was posted as superintendent and legal remembrancer.
Shri PC Dey.
In February 1965 the High Court took a policy decision to the effect that as a general rule judicial officers working in special posts whether cadre or non cadre outside their regular line should be recalled to the regular line after the completion of three years.
Every time the High Court requested the government to release the three officers mentioned above for being posted as district and sessions judges or addl.
On September 21 1966 this Court rendered its decision in Ranga Mahammad s1 case.
It was also not disputed that they had been validly appointed to those posts.
