iminal Appeal No112 of 1965.
Appeal by special leave from the jurisdiction and order dated April 29 1965 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Misc Contempt Case No 43 of 1965.
A section R Chari M K Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar and Shyamala Pappu for the appellants.
O P Rana for respondent No 1.
J P Goyal V C Prasar and section P Singh for respondent No 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the Allahabad High Court adjudging the five appellants guilty of contempt of court and sentencing each of them to pay a fine of Rs 1000 and further ordering that in case of default they shall undergo simple imprisonment for two weeks.
The High Court held that the five appellants had disobeyed an order of stay passed by it staying proceedings pending before the Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas District Deoria.
The relevant facts are these.
On September 2 1963 Yashoda son of Raj Kumar filed a complaint before the Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas against Jagdeo Mahabir and Laxmi alleging that he had been abused and be laboured and his property worth Rs 40 damaged.
On September 10 1963 the Nyaya Panchayat assembled and evidence was led before it.
The case was adjourned to December 25 1963.
On October 11 1963 Mahabir accused made an application under section 85 of the UP Panchayat Raj Act 1947 to SDM Deoria to transfer the proceedings on the ground that the complainant Yashoda was father of Bunna Prasad Sarpanch of Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas.
On November 28 1963 the SDM rejected this application.
On December 13 1963 a notice was issued to the five members of the Panchayat to assemble on December 25 1963 and hear the case.
On December 20 1963 Mahabir moved an application under article 227 of the Constitution challenging the order of the SDM dated November 28 1963 and on the same day the High Court admitted the application and stayed further proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
An urgent copy of the order was applied for and obtained on that very day and the counsel sent a telegram in the following words Allahabad He 20 Baldeopd cashier Trust Sdr GR Mahabir application admitted stay granted Banwarilal.
 117 It is alleged on the side of the applicant Mahabir that immediately after the receipt of the telegram an application accompanied by an affidavit and the telegram of his counsel in the High Court was presented before the Nyaya Panchayat with the prayer to stay further proceedings but the Sarpanch refused to take it.
This fact was denied and the High Court seems not to have relied on this fact in its judgment.
It seems to us that it is not proved on the evidence here that any such application was made before the Nyaya Panchayat.
No application dated December 21 1963 which was not accepted by the Nyaya Panchayat has been produced.
On December 23 1963 Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R Singh SDM Deoria alleging that writ petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.
In the affidavit accompanying the application however no mention was made about Mahabir having informed the Panchayat Adalat of the stay order or the fact that the order and the application was not being entertained by the Adalat.
It happened that the SDM was absent on December 23 1963 and papers were put up before Shri section K Srivas tava Additional Sub Divisional Magistrate who issued the order Put up with records.
But as the notice against Shri Srivastava has been discharged by the High Court we need not give any further details about his various orders On December 25 1963 the Nyaya Panchayat met and proceeded to hear the case.
The order sheet reads thus  Put up today the 25th December 1963.
Sir It is submitted that I have filed a writ petition in the above case in the High Court.
Phagu Prasad.
