iminal Appeal No 48 of 1954.
1303 Appeal by Special Leave granted by the Supreme Court by its Order dated the 31st July 1953 from the Judgment and Order dated the 15th May 1953 of the High Court of Judicature for the State of Pepsu at Th Patiala in Criminal Appeal No 140 of 1952 arising out of the Judgment and Order dated the 31st March 1952 of the Court of Magistrate 1st Class Patiala in Challan Case No 160102 of 1951.
Jai Gopal Sethi Naunit Lal with him for the appellant.
N section Bindra Porus A Mehta and P G Gokhale with him for the respondent.
February 28.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMA AYYAR J.
The appellant was a Sub Divisional Officer in the Public Works Department Pepsu and was at the material dates in charge of certain works at a place called Karhali.
It was part of his duties to disburse the wages to the workmen employed in the works and the procedure usually followed was that be drew the amount required from the treasury and paid the same to the emplo yees against their signatures or thumb impressions in the monthly acquittance roll.
In the roll for April 1951 one Parma was mentioned as a khalasi menial servant and a sum of Rs 51 shown as paid to him for his wages the payment being vouched by thumbimpression.
The First Class Magistrate of Patiala before whom the appellant was put up for trial framed charges against him under section 465 of the Indian Penal Code for forging the thumb impression of Parma and under section 409 of the Indian Penal Code for criminal misappropriation of Rs 51 and after a full trial 167 1304 acquitted him.
Against this judgment there was an appeal by the State to the High Court of Pepsu which held that proof that the thumb impression in the acquittance roll was that of the appellant was sufficient when taken along with other circumstances to establish his guilt and accordingly convicted him both under section 465 and section 409 of the Indian Penal Code.
In support of  the appeal it is argued by Mr Jai Gopal Sethi that the conviction of the appellant is illegal as sanction had not been obtained under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for his prosecution that the evidence on record is insufficient to establish an offence either under section 465 or section 409 of the Indian Penal Code and that there having been an acquittal of the appellant by the trial Magistrate the materials on record did not justify a reversal of that verdict by the appellate Court.
The facts bearing on this question are that there was an application by the Department for sanction to prosecute the appellant for an offence under section 409 and that the Chief Secretary Home Department sent the communication Exhibft PX stating that he had been directed to convey sanction of the Government to his prosecution.
According to the respondent however the main charge against the appellant is under section 409 and no sanction is required for a prosecution under that section.
