From the judgment and order dated the 8th February 1967 of Le Delhi High Court in Civil Writ No 531 D of 1964.
Whether the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry New Delhi Respondent 1 is a commercial establishment within the meaning of s25 of the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 1954 for short the Act is the sale question that falls for determination in this appeal by certificate directed against the judgment dated February 8 1967 of the High Court of Delhi.
The facts bearing on this question may now be stated Respondent 1 hereinafter referred to as the Federation is a Company registered under section 26 of the Indian Companies Act 1913.
The primary objects of the Federation as given in the Memorandum of Association are a To promote Indian business in matters of inland and foreign trade transport industry and manufactures finance and all other economic subjects and to encourage Indian banking shipping and insurance.
b To encourage friendly feeling end unanimity among business community and association on all subjects connected with the common good of Indian business.
fTo provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising in the course of trade industry or transport or other business matters and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
k To attain those advantages by united action which each member may not be able to accomplish in its separate capacity.
z To take or otherwise acquire and hold shares in any other association or company having objects altogether or in part similar to those of the Federation.
z4 4 The income and property of the Federation whencesoever derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the Federation as set forth in the Memorandum of Association and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend bonus or otherwise by way of profit to the members of the Federation.
The Chief Inspector of Shops and Establishments Delhi Appellant 2 herein called upon the Federation to register its establishment he under the Act The Federation failed to comply with the direction and contended that it was not an establishment as defined in section 29 of the Act.
It deals with the trade or busi ness in general to secure the interest of the country.
It shall apply in the first instance.
Further the definition of commercial establishment is wider than that of shop.
These services are material services.
In the matter.
