From the Judgment and Order dated 1 12 1975 of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Criminal Original Nos.
13 Crl of 1975 and 14 Crl of 1975.
D Mookherjee and Harbans Singh and VM Jain for the appellants.
Deven Chetan Das Advocate General Haryana and RN Sachthey for the respondent.
243 The appellants wrote a letter on 20 February 1975 to the President with copies to the Prime Minister Chief Justice of India the Chief Minister of Haryana and the Chief Jus tice of Punjab and Haryana High Court.
The letter was signed by 15 members of the Bar belonging to the District Bar Association Bhiwani.
In that letter they further stated as follows The learned Judge met the members of the Bar on 15 February 1975 in the Bar Room Bhiwani.
During the course of the meeting the learned Judge criticised the Government s policy in regard to its attitude towards the judiciary.
He suggested the members of the Bar to revolt against the present Government as it has suppressed the civil liberation sic of the individuals and has also failed miserably in all fields.
The Judge further said that the prevailing system of Government is not good in this country and we must adopt the communist form of Govern ment which can save the nation.
Five members of the Bar Association at Charkhi Dadri sent a letter addressed to the President.
with copies to the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court the Chief Minister of Haryana the Chief Justice of India and the Prime Minister.
In that letter they said that Justice DS Tewatia visited the Bar and inspected the court at Charkhi Dadri on 17 February 1975.
Thereafter they stated as follows While talking with the members of the Bar he pointed out that the library of this Bar seems to be very poor.
Then Shri Virender Kumar Single a member of the Bar requested the honourable Judge to help the Bar either by supplying books or by allocating the grant by the High Court so that the needy Bar may be able to purchase necessary books for the library.
Then the Honourable Judge turned down the request and replied that it is never possible in the present system of Government of India.
Chandrawati.
The appellants took a copy of their letter to the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana.
