Appeal No 205 of 1954.
On appeal from the judgment and order dated the 978 13th April 1954 of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No 49 of 1954 arising out of the order dated the 31st day of March 1954 of the said High Court exercising its Ordinary Original Jurisdiction in Misc.
Petition No 55 of 1954.
K T Desai P N Bhagwati Rameshwar Nath and Rajinder Narain for the appellants.
C K Daphtary Solicitor General of India Porus A Mehta and B H Dhebar with him for the respondent.
November 10.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMA AYYAR J.
This appeal raises a question as to the powers of a Custodian of Evacuee Property to cancel a lease granted by him under section 12 of the XXXI of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act.
Messrs Abdul Karim and Brothers owned along with certain other properties which are not the subject matter of the present appeal three mills with bungalows and chawls at Ambernath in Thana District and the Bobbin Factory at Tardeo in Bombay.
They having migrated to Pakistan these properties were declared by a notification dated 12 9 1951 issued under section 7 of the Act as evacuee property and under section 81 of the Act they became vested in the respondent as the Custodian for the State.
The appellants are displaced persons and on 30 8 1952 the respondent entered into an agreement with them Exhibit A which is as aptly characterised by learned counsel for the appellants of a composite character consisting of three distinct matters.
There was firstly a demise under which the mills and the factory in question were leased to the appellants for a period of five years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
Secondly there was a sale of the stock of raw materials unsold finished goods spare parts cars trucks and other movables which were in the mills and the factory with elaborate provisions for the determination and payment of the price therefor in 979 due course.
And thirdly there was an agreement to sell the mills and the factory to the appellants in certain events and subject to certain conditions.
There was also a clause for referring the disputes between the parties to arbitration.
On 12 2 1954 the respondent issued a notice to the appellants Exhibit C wherein be set out that the appellants had systematically committed breaches of the various terms on which the properties bad been leased to them and called upon them to show cause why the lease should not be cancelled and why they should not be evicted.
The notice then went on to state that the respondent considered it necessary to issue certain directions for the preservation of the demised premises and the goods and stock in trade etc lying in the demised premises and the appellants were accordingly required not to remove the stock or raise any money on the security thereof and to send daily reports to the Custodian of the transactions with reference thereto.
On 13 2 1954 the appellants appeared before the respondent and contended that he had no auth ority to issue the notice in question under section 12 and that it was therefore illegal.
In support of the petition the appellants urged that section 12 under which the respondent purported to act authorised the cancellation of only leases granted by the evacuee and not by the Custodian himself and that no directions could be given under section 10 as it applied only to properties of the evacuee and that by reason of the sale the movables in question had become the property of the appel 124 980 lants.
In their petition under article 226 it was the validity of the notice.
