If a partition were to take place during Khandappa s lifetime between himself and his two sons the plaintiff would have got 14th share in the joint family properties the other three getting 14th share each.
Adding 14th and 124th the plaintiff claims a 724th share in the joint family properties.
That in short is the plaintiffs case.
Defendants 2 to 5 admitted the plaintiff s claim the suit having H been contested by defendant 1 Gurupad only.
He contended that the suit properties did not belong to the joint family that they were Khandappa s self requisitions and that on the date of Khandappa s 764 death in 1960 there was no joint family in existence.
He alleged that Khandappa had effected a partition of the suit properties between himself and his two sons in December 1952 and December 1954 and that by a family arrangement dated March 31 1955 he bad given directions for disposal of the share which was reserved by him for himself in the earlier partitions.
There was therefore no question of a fresh partition.
That in short is the case of defendant 1.
The trial court by its judgment dated July 13 1965 rejected defendant 1 s case that the properties were Khandappa s self acquisitions and that he had partitioned them during his lifetime.
Upon that finding the plaintiff.
became indisputably entitled to a share in the joint family properties but following the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Shiramabai Bhimgonda vs Kalgonda1 the learned trial judge limited that share to 124th refusing to add 14th and 124th together.
By a judgment dated March 19 1975 a Division Bench of the High Court dismissed defendant 1 s appeal and allowed the plaintiff s cross objections by holding that the suit properties belonged to the joint family that there was no prior partition and that the plaintiff is entitled to a 724th share.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
Another Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji2 had already reconsidered and dissented from earlier Division Bench judgment in Shiramabai Bhimgonda1 In these two cases the judgment of the Bench was delivered by the same learned Judge Patel J.
On further consideration the learned Judge felt that Shiramabai1 was not fully argued and was incorrectly decided and that on a true view of law the widow s share must be ascertained by adding the share to which she is entitled at a notional partition during her husband s life time and the share which she would get in her husband s interest upon his death.
Court that the suit properties belonged to the joint family and that there was no prior partition is well founded and is not seriously disputed the decision of this appeal rests on the interpretation of Explanation 1 to section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act 30 of 1956.
That section reads thus 6.
2 765 shall devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with this Act  Provided that if the deceased had left him surviving a female relative specified in class I of the Schedule or a male relative specified in that class who claims through such a female relative the interest of the deceased in the Mitakshara coparcenary property shall devolve by testamentary or intestate succession as the case may be under this Act and not by survivorship.
Explanation 2.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
Two things become necessary to determine for the purpose of giving relief to the plaintiff.
