ivil appeal No 2197 From the Judgment and order dated 16470 of Andhra Pradesh High Court in appeal No 431 of 1965.
Dr YS Chitale V G Shanker KL Hathi Ms Sadhana DK Chhaya MK Arora and Mrs H Wahi for the appellant.
352 T section Krishnamoorthi Iyer KR.
Choudhry and KS.
Choudhary for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
This appeal is by a certificate granted on 18th September 1970 by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh under Article 1331 a of the Constitution as it stood at the relevant time against the Judgment and decree of the High Court dated 16th April 1970.
By the said Judgment and decree the High Court of Andhra Pradesh had reversed the Judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge Masulipatam dated 19th November 1964 dismissing the suit of the plaintiffs respondents against the appellant.
Late Shri Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prashad was the husband of respondent No 1 and father of the respondents No 2 to 5 herein.
The respondents filed a suit in the Subordinate Court of Sub Judge being original suit No 2 of 1964 on 10th January 1964.
The short facts leading to this case are One Late Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prasad hereinafter referred to as a deceased  died intestate on 12th January 1961.
He had filled a proposal for insurance for Rs 50000 on 27th December 1960.
There was medical examination by the doctor on the life of the deceased on 27th December 1960.
The deceased had issued two cheques for Rs 300 and Rs 220 respectively in favour of the appellant as first premium.
Cheque for Rs 300 was encashed by the appellant on 29th December 1960.
Cheque for Rs 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January 1961.
As mentioned hereinbefore the deceased died on the day following ie on 12th January 1961.
On 16th January 1961 the widow of the deceased respondent No 1 herein wrote to the appellant intimating the death of the deceased and demanded payment of Rs 50000.
The Divisional Manager Masulipatam Branch denied liability on behalf of the appellant Corporation on 28th January 1961.
Thereafter there was correspondence between the parties between 1st February 1961 to 23rd December 1963 wherein the respondents plaintiffs had claimed the payment and the appellant had denied liability for the same.
353 On the 10th January 1964 the plaintiffs filed the suit in the court of Subordinate Judge Masulipatam.
It was alleged in the plaint after setting out the facts which have been set out hereinbefore that the medical examination report was submitted to the appellant corporation by Dr Sri C Sambasiva Rao Approved Medical practitioner of the appellant in regard to the medical examination of the deceased.
A report described as All the Friend s report was duly sent to the appellant with regard to that proposal and all the preliminaries were completed and it was further alleged that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the Field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal and advised the deceased to pay the first premium in full.
It was further stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
Therefore it was stated that the deceased had fulfilled his part of the insurance contract and the appellant Corporation by its overt acts of encashing the cheques and crediting the amounts in its accounts accepted the proposal of the deceased.
In the premises it was said in the plaint that there was a concluded and valid insurance contract between the deceased and the appellant Corporation and that the insurance contracted commenced on 11th January 1961 being the date of the receipt of the balance towards premium by the Corporation.
It was further stated in the plaint that the office of the Divisional Manager of Masulipatam was the concerned authority to settle the claim of the plaintiffs respondents and to pay the amount.
The contention of the Corporation that the proposal was not accepted and as such there was no concluded insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation was untenable according to the plaintiffs.
It was alleged that with full knowledge of the completion of all the preliminaries the Corporation had encashed the cheques issued towards the first premium and therefore it was the case of the plaintiffs respondents that the encashment of the cheques amounted in those circumstances in law to an acceptance of the proposal of the deceased.
It was further alleged that the appropriation of the amounts by the Corporation towards the first premium by the deceased was only consistent with the acceptance of the proposal.
In the premises the plaintiffs claimed the said amount along with interest at six per cent per annum from the date of refusal of payment till the date of payment of the demand.
Written statement was filed on behalf of the appellant.
In the said written statement after setting out the facts it was denied that the payment of the first premium amounted to acceptance of the proposal and the allegation about the assurance given to the deceased as alleged in the plaint was not true nor the alleged assurance if any valid under law.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
It was stated that on the death of the deceased the amount covering two cheques were lying in the deposit and in the suspense account of the Corporation and was not adjusted towards the premium since the proposal was not considered the terms of acceptance was not fixed and the premium amount required for the proposal was not calculated.
It is not necessary to set out in detail those issues but the important and main issue was whether there was a concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation of India.
He further stated that the amount would be transferred into the first premium register after the proposal was accepted and the risk covered.
Shri Brahmandrao Ramiah Assistant Divisional Manager of the Life Insurance Corporation office at Madras was also examined as the second witness of the defendants.
When the acceptance was complete and when there was no requirement necessary and if the full first instalment was 356 in deposit it would be adjusted towards premium amount he stated.
In this connection before the learned Trial Judge reliance was placed on the Life Insurance Corporation of India Standing order 1960 Financial Powers.
The appeal must therefore be allowed.
SR Appeal allowed.
