Civil Appeals Nos.
Ex parte for the Respondents.
In these 11 appeals only that part of the judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court is assailed by the Union of India where the challenge to the validity of section 28 of the Gold Control Act 1968 has succeeded.
The challenge to the other provisions of the Act at the instance of persons engaged in gold trade ie manufacturers shroffs and dealers in gold was rejected by the High Court.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus 28.
Money lending business not to be carried on in licensed premises No licensed dealer shall unless authorised by the Administrator so to do a carry on business as a money lender or banker on the security of any article or ornament or both b permit any other person to carry on money lending banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
 The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
No rules have been framed prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the Administrator could refuse permission or grant permission.
A dealer is at the mercy of the Administrator and is help less against the arbitrary exercise of the power by the Administrator when he chooses to negative the request.
It is clear that Section 28 confers an arbitrary and uncanalised power without any criteria for guiding the discretion of the Administrator.
collector of Central Excise Poona II Division while declaring sec.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
It is true that no express rule prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the permission can be granted or refused 1 955 has been framed nor any particular guide line has been expressly indicated in sec.
28 by reference to which the power conferred upon him thereunder could be exercised by the Administrator but that is not decisive of the matter.
It cannot be disputed that sec.
28 is part and parcel of the entire scheme of Gold Control as envisaged by the Act and the object of the enactment and the scheme affords sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising his discretion under that section.
