it case for initiating any procee d ings for contempt against the respondents.
109F  ORIGINAL JURISDICTION Writ Petition Civil No 530 of 1983 etc.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
VA Bobde Shyam Mudaliar VM Tarkunde GL Sangh i AK Sanghi Mrs R Karanjawala Mrs Meenakshi Karanjawa la NM Popli and VJ Francis for the Petitioners.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by OJHA J.
The three civ il miscellaneous petitions referred to above on the other ha nd have been made by the appellants of Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 asserting that the direction given by this Court on 2 nd February 1981 has not been complied with in the manner as it ought to have been by the respondents and they should be consequently required to comply with the said direction.
Kindly acknowledge receipt.
The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
The writ petition w as contested by the respondents thereto inter alia on t he ground that under the rules of promotion from Supervisor  A  to Chargeman II first Departmental Promotion Committee at the factory level and then a Departmental Committee at t he Central level screens the service record of each of t he Supervisors A  who comes within the range of eligibili ty and then finally the Director General of Ordnance Factori es draws up a list and sanctions promotions.
It was furth er asserted that in accordance with the said rule the cases of all the appellants were screened by the Promotion Committ ee at the factory level and then at the Central level and th ey not having been found fit were not promoted.
It appears th at the criterion of promotion is seniority cum merit.
T he learned Single Judge however did not go into the merits of the controversy and dismissed the writ petition on t he ground of unexplained laches and also on the ground that a previous petition for similar relief had not been presse d Against the 98 judgment of the learned Single Judge the appellants pr e ferred a special appeal before a Division Bench of th at Court.
The learned Judges who decided the special appeal d id not consider it appropriate to uphold the dismissal of t he writ petition on the technical ground which found favo ur with the learned Single Judge and they went into the meri ts of the respective contentions of the parties.
They howeve r did not find any substance in the submission made on beha lf of the appellants and accordingly dismissed the speci al appeal on 8th February 1977.
The learned Judges pointed o ut that it was admitted that the conditions of service applic a ble to the case of the appellants were governed by t he Indian Ordnance Factories Recruitment and Conditions of Service of Class III Personnel Rules 1956 hereinaft er referred to as the Rules framed by the President of Ind ia under Article 309 of the Constitution.
It was further poin t ed out that Rule 8 contemplated that appointments by prom o tion were to be made on the basis of a selection list pr e pared for the different grades by duly constituted Depar t mental Promotion Committees laid down in the said ru le whereas Rule 12 provided that no appointment to the posts to which these rules apply shall be made otherwise than as specified therein.
With regard to the circular dated 6 th November 1962 the learned Judges took the view that it w as difficult to read in that circular any intention or delibe r ation on the part of the Director General of Ordnance Fact o ries that as soon as two years were completed by a diplo ma holder in the Grade of Supervisor A  there would be an automatic promotion to the post of Chargeman Il.
Accordi ng to the learned Judges such a view would militate again st Rule 12 of the Rules mentioned above.
It was further he ld that even if it was to be assumed that the Director Gener al of Ordnance Factories automatically promoted some Superv i sors A  immediately on the completion of 2 years of servi ce to the post of Chargeman II without the recommendation aft er screening by the Promotion Committee no right would accr ue in favour of the appellants inasmuch as such promotio ns would be in the teeth of Rule 12 and could not confer a legal right on the appellants to be likewise promoted in breach of Rule 12.
With regard to the plea based on Artic le 16 of the Constitution.
it was held A half hearted argume nt was raised at the end of the hearing on behalf of the appe l lant petitioners that they have been discriminated again st by depriving them the benefit of automatic promotion in violation of constitutional guarantee under Article 16 of the Constitution.
This was an argument neither pleaded as a ground for the petition nor was raised before the learn ed Single Judge.
Moreover we do not think any case on t he basis of violation of Article 16 of the Constitution can be found in favour of the appellant petitioners only becau se some 99 supervisors equally placed were promoted against the rul es of service.
No formal foundation has been raised in t he pleadings in the writ petition in support of the grou nd based on Article 16 of the Constitution.
It reads Heard counsel.
Special leave granted.
Our attention has been invited by learned counsel for bo th the sides to the relevant rules which govern promotion to the post of Chargeman Grade II.
It appears that a lar ge number of persons have been promoted to those posts thou gh they have completed only two years of service.
The Gover n ment now appears to insist that in so far as the appellan ts are concerned they cannot be considered for promotion unle ss they complete three years of service.
We see no justific a tion for any such differential treatment being given to t he appellants.
If a large number of other persons similar ly situated have been promoted as Chargeman Grade II aft er completing two years of service there is no reason why t he appellants should also not be similarly promoted aft er completing the same period of service.
We Therefore direct that the concerned authoriti es will consider the cases of the appellants for promotion as Chargeman Grade II and promote them to the said posts unle ss they are found to be unfit.
If the appellants are promote d they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
There will be no order as to costs.
Now we shall rev rt to the exact prayers made in the three miscellaneous pet i tions aforesaid.
The reliefs prayed for in the above two civil miscellaneo us petitions are thus of an interim nature.
 The aforesaid writ petitions came up for hearing befo re a bench of two learned Judges of this Court on 9th Septe m ber 1987.
 It is in view of this order that these matters have been listed before us.
It was also brought to our notice that similar ly placed 125 employees got the benefit of the circular dat ed 6th November 1962 in pursuance of an order passed by t he Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April 1983 in writ pet i tions filed by them.
Howeve r merely on completion of two years  service a Supervisor  A  could not claim automatic promotion.
It w as further urged that the petitioners of these writ petitio ns were on the basis of the Rules considered for promotion a nd it is not disputed that all of them have in due course be en promoted as Chargeman II and some of them have even be en promoted to higher posts.
He also brought to our notice a subsequent circular dated 20th January 1966 by the Direct or General of Ordnance Factories who had issued.
or in equivalent grades in the matter of promotion.
62 and 4416ANG dt.
The question of promotion of Diploma holders in MechElec.
Engineering and Ex apprentices serving as Sup r A  Gr.
or equivalent grades.
  it was held by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Ramachandra Shankar Deodhar and Ors.
The matter has been consider ed in a recent decision of this Court in the case of Union of India  Ors.
vs Sh.
Soraasundararn Viswanath  Ors 198 8 3 SC Judgments Today 724 wherein it has been held It is well settled that the norms regarding recruitment a nd promotion of officers belonging to the Civil Services can be laid down either by a law made by the appropriate Legisl a ture or by rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India or by means of executive instru c tions issued under Article 73 of the Constitution of Ind ia in the case of Civil Services under the Union of India a nd under Article 162 of the Constitution of India in the ca se of Civil Services under the State Governments.
If there is a conflict between the executive instructions and the rul es made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India the rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India prevail and if there is a co n flict between the rules made under the proviso to Artic le 309 of the Constitution of India and the law made by t he appropriate Legislature the law made by the appropria te Legislature prevails.
Since Rule 8 in t he instant case prescribed a procedure for making promotion t he said procedure could not be abrogated by the executi ve instruction dated 6th November 1962.
The right to promotion on the oth er hand was to be governed by the Rules.
The ord er dated 28th December 1965 which provided a minimum period of service of three years in the lower grade for promotion to the next higher grade and the circular dated 20th Janua ry 1966 which provided that promotions in future will be e f fected in accordance with the normal rules and not merely on completion of 2 years  satisfactory continuous service h ad the effect of doing away with the accelerated chance of promotion and relegating Supervisors A  in the matter of promotion to the normal position as it obtained under t he Rules.
The effect of this change obviously was th at now only fifty per cent vacancis in the post of Depu ty Collector being available in place of all the vacancies it was to take almost double the time for many other allocat ed Tehsildars to get promoted as Deputy Collectors.
A rule which merely affects chances of promoti on cannot be regarded as varying a condition of service.
This it was urged affected the ir chances of promotion which were protected under the provi so to Section 115 sub section 7.
 It i s therefore clear that neither the Rules of July 30 195 9 nor the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector divisionwise varies the conditions of service of the petitioners to their disadvantage.
 The same view was reiterated in Mohammad Shujat Ali a nd Ors.
vs Union of India  Ors.
Annexure I to the said affidavit gives a break up of the total diplo ma holders recruited in the Department due to acute need of Ordnance Department following the chinese aggression.
It indicates that approximately 125 diploma holders were r e cruited in 1962 550 in 1963 250 in 1964 150 in 1965 a nd 100 in 1966 the total number of such recruits being appro x imately 1175.
It cannot be disputed that the Director General of Ordnance Factories who had issued the circular dated 6 th November 1962 had the power to issue the subsequent circ u lar dated 20th January 1966 also.
Apparently after t he coming into force of the 107 order dated 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January 1966 promotions could not be made just on compl e tion of 2 years  satisfactory service under the earli er circular dated 6th November 1962 the same having be en superseded by the later circular.
The fact that some Superviso rs A  had been promoted before the coming into force of t he order dated 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January 1966 could not therefore constitute the basis f or an argument that those Supervisors A  whose cases came up for consideration for promotion thereafter and who we re promoted in due course in accordance with the rules we re discriminated against.
It h as further been stated therein that after the newly creat ed posts were thus filled by promotion chances of promotion of those who were appointed subsequently diminished and f or want of sufficient number of 108 vacancies as Chargeman II they could not be promoted to th at post soon after the completion of 2 years  service.
These writ petitions therefore deserve to be dismissed.
