From the Judgment and Order dated 4785  21684 of the Customs Excise and Gold Control Appellate Tribunal New Delhi in Appeal Nos.
The case of the appellant is that the said fusel oil is a com pletely manufactured article and after completion of its manufacture it is stored in storage tanks duly approved for this purpose.
It is at this stage that the quantity of fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufactured according to the appel lant is entered in the RG 1 Register maintained for goods manufactured by the appellant.
It is also the case of the appellant that the said fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufac tured by it is sold in bulk and delivered to the customers at the appellant s factory.
The fusel oilStyrene Monomer is also capable of being supplied in road tankers to customers.
The appellant had filed its price lists in respect of the same.
In the said price lists which were duly approved by the Asstt.
Collector the appellant had shown the value of fusel oilStyrene Monomer at the rate at which those were sold in wholesale as naked Ex Works and in bulk.
According to the appellant the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oilStyrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
On 2nd July 1983 a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
Replies were duly filed to the said show cause notices by the appellant contending inter alia that as the drums were supplied by the buyer value thereof could not be included in the assessable value.
On the 11th August 1983 two orders were passed by the Assist ant Collector one in relation to each of the aforesaid show cause notices.
The Assistant Collector included the value of the drums in the assessable value of the said fusel oilStyrene Monomer.
Appeals were filed by the assessee.
There was a further appeal to the Tribunal.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer there fore the value had to be included in the assessable value.
Collector.
The appellant was not a manufacturer of drums.
It was contended by Shri Salve appearing on behalf of the appellant that on a correct analysis of section 44d the duty being on the activity of manufacture whatever is necessary to bring the goods into existence alone can be taken into account for duty purposes.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd  981 Shri Salve has however contended that so far as this Court is concerned this question is concluded by the deci sion of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd Learned Attorney General however contended that this decision did not deal with the present controversy.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
The Asstt.
