ivil Appeal No 1514 of 1979.
549 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATHAN J.
A very interesting question comes up for consideration in this appeal.
The question to be ultimately decided falls within a very narrow compass but it is neces sary to set out the facts leading to the present appeal at some length.
It belonged to several co owners.
The firm and its partners arc hereinafter compendiously referred to as the tenants .
1947 and related to Door No 2 Item No1 in Schedule A to the plaint.
This was a property comprising of an area of 4 grounds and 151 square feet with certain buildings thereon.
The second lease deed Ext.
1947 relating to Door No 3 Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint covered an area of 8700 sq.
In respect of item 2 the fair rent claimed was Rs326650 as against Rs200 pm payable under the lease deed.
They claimed that under both the lease deeds what had been leased out to them was only a vacant land and that the superstructure had been built by them.
They claimed there fore that they were entitled to relief under the Madras 550 City Tenants  Protection Act and that the Rent Controller Court had no jurisdiction to fix a fair rent.
So far as item 2 was concerned it appears that at the time of the hearing it was conceded before the Rent Controller that the respondents were tenants of the entire properties covered by the lease deed and that they had not constructed any of the premises thereupon.
There were appeals to the Court of Small Causes.
This was on 19th April 1967.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20111968.
The Court addressed itself to this question.
It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not in law create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
The Rent Controller was therefore held to have had juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect of the premises.
It was therefore held that the plantiff s claim in the suit should succeed.
The suit was decreed accordingly.
It held that there was a valid tease between the quondam owners and the tenants under Exts.
P 1  P 2.
Having regard to the express recitals in exhibit P 3 the Appellate Bench held that it was impossible to hold that the build ings which admittedly belonged to the defendants and had been constructed by them on the vacant land taken on lease under exhibit P 1 ever were or could be the subject matter of the sale under exhibit p 3.
In view of this finding it was held that the Rent Controller had no jurisdiction to entertain the application for fixation of fair rent in respect of the property which was only a vacant piece of land.
In conse quence it was held the LIC could not maintain the suit for recovery of rent based on the order made by the statutory tribunal under the Rent Control Act and claim the difference between the so called fair rent and the contract rent.
In our view the conclusion of the learned Single Judge that the lease exhibit P 1 executed by the co owners of the property in favour of one of them was invalid was erroneous.
After putting up the buildings he applied for determination of standard rent under the Bombay Rents Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act 1947.
571 For the reasons mentioned above we are of the opinion that the High Court reached the correct conclusion and that this appeal has to fail.
