this civil appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment and decree dated 29th november1977 rendered by a single judge of the gujarat high court in second appeal no 348 of 1973which arose out of regular civil suit no 921 of 1966 filed in the court of joint civil judge baroda civil court by the appellant herein as plaintiff against respondents 1 and 2 herein.
defendants 1 and 2 for redemption of suit properties which were mortgaged as security for certain monies borrowed by the plaintiff from defendant l under two deeds of mortgage executed in the year 1961.
even if the sale of said properties in favour of defendant l it was asserted therein was not proved they continued to be tenants of the said properties on the date of suit as they were tenants even before the date of coming into existence of the mortgages.
court it also made a preliminary decree in favour of the plaintiff for redemption of the suit properties.
a learned single judge of the high court who heard the second appeal while upheld the concurrent findings of the courts below that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties in favour of defendant l were mortgages by conditional sale and the defendants had failed to prove that there was sale of the suit properties in their favour subsequent to the coming into existence of the said mortgages found that the defendants had raised in their written statements the plea that they were tenants not only prior to the date of suit but also at the time of the filing of the suit and having regard to that plea the suit ought to have been stayed by the civil court and the issue of tenancy should have been referred to the mamlatdar for obtaining a finding from him thereon both under section 85 a of the bt.
al act as it stood before its amendment at the time of filing of the suit and as it stood after its amendment after the filing of the suit.
consequently the learned single judge set aside the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court relating to the issue of tenancy raised by the defendants in the suit and remanded the case to the civil court trial court directing it to refer the issue of such tenancy to the mamlatdar baroda for his determination and to stay all further proceedings in the suit till he got the finding from the mamlatdar on that tenancy issue and thereafter to proceed to dispose of that suit in the light of that finding and the other findings recorded by the appellate court district judge.
agricultural lands at the time of execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour because of the coming into existence of such mortgages there occurred merger of lease hold rights of defendant l in suit properties when he obtained those properties as mortgage security under the said mortgages and as a consequence he became a mortgagee in possession of those properties.
according 10 him a mortgagee in possession being a person who can not be deemed to be a tenant under section 4 of the bt al act it was not open to the defendants to claim that they were the tenants of suit properties and if that be so question of raising issue of tenancy by the civil court in the suit before it did not arise at all nor was it necessary to refer such issue to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bt al act and stay the suit till receipt of the finding on such issue as was directed by the high court in its judgment under appeal.
even otherwise it was argued by him that the civil court before whom the plaintiff had filed the suit for redemption of the suit properties could not have driven the plaintiff to the forum of mamlatdar merely because the defendants had raised the plea that they were tenants of the suit properties agricultural lands.
according to him when the plaintiff had not admitted that the defendants were tenants of the suit properties it was not open to the defendants to force the plaintiff who had a right to choose his forum to file a suit to go before another forum on the plea that jurisdiction lay before another forum that is mamlatdar.
379 he therefore urged that the high court was not justified in upsetting the concurrent finding of the trial court and the appellate court that the defendants failed to prove their tenancy and remanding the case to the trial court directing it to refer the issue of tenancy to the mamlatdar and stay the suit till the receipt of the finding in that regard from the mamlatdar and then dispose of the suit.
hence the judgment and order of the high court according to him was liable to be interfered with and set aside.
however learned counsel appearing for the defendants respondents sought to refute the arguments advanced on half of the plaintiff appellant.
2 when a plea of tenancy is raised with regard to suit property an agricultural land by a defendant who claims to be a tenant of such property under the bt al act and seeks a reference of that issue by the civil court to the mamlatdar under that act for obtaining a finding thereon can the civil court decide such issue by itself and proceed to decide the suit on the basis of the finding thereon.
as the said questions could be dealt with appropriately with reference to the statutory provisions which bear upon them it would be convenient to advert to such statutory provisions here.
bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948.
4 a person lawfully cultivating any land belonging to another person shall be deemed to be a tenant if such land is not cultivated personally by the owner and if such person is not a a member of the owner s family or b a servant on wages payable in cash or kind but not in crop share or a hired labourer cultivating the land under the personal supervision of the owner or any member of the owner s family or c a mortgagee in possession.
70 for the purposes of this act the following shall be the duties and functions to be performed by the mamlatdar a to decide whether a person is an agriculturist b to decide whether a person is a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant c to decide such other matters as may be referred to him by or under this 85 1 no civil court shall have jurisdiction to settle decide or deal with any question which is by or under this act required to be settled decided or dealt with by the mamlatdar or tribunal a manager the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal in appeal or revision or the state government in exercise of their powers of control.
2 no order of the mamlatdar the tribunal the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal or the state government made under this act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
2 on receipt of such reference from the civil court the competent authority shall deal with and decide such issues in accordance with the provisions of this act and shall communicate its decision to the civil court and such court shall thereupon dispose of the suit in accordance with the procedure applicable thereto.
al act even if the plaintiff could obtain a decree for redemption of the suit properties which relief was sought in the suit.
coming to g appalaswamy case 1984 indlaw sc 314 supra which considered the question whether a sitting tenant who took property by a possessory or usufructuary mortgage in his favour was liable to deliver physical possession upon redemption to the mortgagor.
former lessor this court dealing with the said question said that all depends upon whether there was an implied surrender of the lessee s rights when the usufructuary mortgage was executed in his favour by the lessor mortgagor and only if an implied surrender of lossee s rights could be inferred then the mortgagor would be entitled to have delivery of physical possession upon redemption but not otherwise.
dealing with the question of non merger this court approved the ratio of the decision in shah mathuradas 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra thus in our view there can be no merger of a lease and a mortgage even where the two transactions are in respect of the same property.
accordingly there can not be a merger of a lease and a mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
hence the lease hold of a tenant lessee in a property does not merge in mortgage security of that property even if it is given to.
him by the landlord lessor on a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining decree for redemption of the mortgage.
bombay had exclusive jurisdiction in dealing with the suit out of which the appeal had arisen.
dealing with the matter this court referred to the general principle which covers the question of jurisdiction at the inception of suits which was not disputed thus the plaintiff chooses his forum and files his suit.
if he establishes the correctness of his facts he will get his relief from the forum chosen.
by referring to the material portion of section 28 of the rents control act the argument made on behalf of the appellants was found by this court to be untenable by stating thus we do not think that the section says or intends to say that the plea of the defendant will determine or change the forum.
it does not invest those courts with exclusive power to try questions of title such as questions as between the rightful owner and a trespasser or a licensee for such questions do not arise under the act.
as seen from the above observations this court has held that it did not think that the section concerned says or intends to say that the plea of the defendant will determine or change the forum.
but if the provisions of the bt al act which bear on the question of matters to be decided by the mamlatdar are seen they give no room for one even to think that those matters could be decided by a civil court when a question is raised in that behalf even by a defendant in a suit.
consequently the judgment and order under appeal does not call for our interference.
appeal dismissed.
