appellant before us was detained u s 3 of the conservation of foreign exchange and prevention of smuggling activities.
act1974.
for short cofeposa.
he is the managing director of a company registered and incorporated under the provisions of the companies act known as m s sundesh springs private limited.
he allegedly misdeclared both the value and description of goods upon procuring fake and false bills through one prabhjot singh.
aaysons india and m s p j sales corporation ludhiana.
appellant and the said prabhjot singh made statements u s 108 of the customs act.
non alloy.
invoices with a higher value were presented before the indian customs authorities with a view to avail depb incentives but in fact invoices with a lower value were presented for clearance.
a letters patent appeal concededly which was not maintainable was filed thereagainst which was dismissed by reason of the impugned judgment.
although before the high court the principal ground urged on behalf of appellant in questioning the legality or validity of the order of detention was unexplained delay in passing the order of detention which did not find favour with the high court.
before us several other grounds viz.
in the meantime admittedly the period of detention being over appellant had been set at large.
he was released from custody on 17 5 2006.
in this regard we may notice the following dates.
he was discharged on bail on 6 1 2004 several inquiries were conducted both inside and outside india.
a report in relation to overseas inquiry was received on 12 5 2004 on 25 6 2004 proposal of detention was sent which was approved on 2 12 2004 on.
20 12 2004the authorities of the dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny.
indisputably delay to some extent stands explained.
but we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2 12 2004the order of detention was passed after four months.
b l  2 misc.
furthermore as noticed hereinbefore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellant.
it follows that the test of proximity is not a rigid or mechanical test by merely counting number of months between the offending acts and the order of detention.
however when there is undue and long delay between the prejudicial activities and the passing of detention order the court has to scrutinise whether the detaining authority has satisfactorily examined such a delay and afforded a tenable and reasonable explanation as to why such a delay has occasioned when called upon to answer and further the court has to investigate whether the causal connection has been broken in the circumstances of each case.
in fact no reason in that behalf whatsoever has been assigned at all.
in abdul salam alias thiyyan s o thiyyan mohammad detenu no 962general prison trivandrum v union of india and others 1990 3 scc 15 1990 indlaw sc 994 whereupon the learned additional solicitor general has placed strong reliance this court found that there had been potentiality or likelihood of prejudicial activities and thus or mere delay as long as it is explained the court may not strike down the detention.
although learned additional solicitor general may be correct in his submissions that ordinarily we should not exercise our discretionary jurisdiction u art 136 of the constitution of india by allowing appellant to raise new grounds but in our opinion we may have to do so as an order of detention may have to be considered from a different angle.
it may be true that the period of detention is over.
but indisputably those documents involving the civil court proceedings were not placed before the detaining authority.
if the same had not been done not only the delay in issuing the order of detention stood unexplained but also thereby the order itself would become vitiated.
furthermore the civil court proceedings were over on 19 11 2004.
evidently the detaining authority did not take immediate steps to detain appellant.
a division bench of this court in k s nagamuthu v state of tamil nadu ors 2005 9 scale 534 2005 indlaw sc 748 struck down an order of detention on the ground that the relevant material had been withheld from the detaining authority which in that case was a letter of the detenu retracting from confession made by him.
in p saravanan v state of t n and others 2001 10 scc 212it was stated when we went through the grounds of detention enumerated by the detaining authority we noticed that there is no escape from the conclusion that the subjective satisfaction arrived at by the detaining authority was the cumulative result of all the grounds mentioned therein.
in ahamed nassar v state of tamil nadu and others 1999 8 scc 473 1999 indlaw sc 778this court opined the question is not whether the second part of the contents of those letters was relevant or not but whether they were placed before the detaining authority for his consideration.
even the letter dated 23 4 1999 which reached the secretary concerned at 3 00 p m on 26 4 1999 was much before the formal detention order dated 28 4 1999 the secretary concerned was obliged to place the same before the detaining authority.
it had specifically been referred to in extenso in the order of detention.
it is however stated that the records were tampered with at the instance of appellant.
but the said information report was registered only on 6 4 2005 and not prior to the date of order of detention.
in paragraph 36 of the order of detention the detaining authority stated in view of the facts mentioned above i have no hesitation in arriving at the conclusion that you have through your acts of omission and commission indulged in prejudicial activities as narrated above.
considering the nature and gravity of the offence the well planned manner in which you have engaged yourself in such prejudicial activities and your role therein as brought out above all of which reflect your high potentiality and propensity to indulge in such prejudicial activities in future i am satisfied that there is a need to prevent you from indulging in such prejudicial activities in future by detention under cofeposa act1974 with a view to preventing you from smuggling goods in future.
it has not been denied or disputed that even the xeroxed copies of the said documents had not been supplied to the detenue.
1991 1 scc 128 1990 indlaw sc 85 the said decision was rendered in a different fact situation.
demand of any or every document however irrelevant it may be for the concerned detenu merely on the ground that there is a reference thereto in the grounds of detention cannot vitiate an otherwise legal detention order.
in the present case except stating that the documents were not supplied before the meeting of the advisory board there is no pleading that it had resulted in the impairment of his right nor could counsel for the petitioners point out any such prejudice.
if the documents were material so as to enable the detenue to make an effective representation which is his constitutional as also statutory right non supply thereof would vitiate the order of detention.
even in the earlier part of the impugned order of detention i e detaining authority appears to have drawn his own conclusions.
in view of our findings aforementioned it is not necessary to consider the contention raised by mr mukul rohtagi that order of detention suffers from non application of mind.
appeal allowed.
