interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
indisputably first respondent filed an application under section 4656 and 107 of the act marked as c o no 9 of 1986contending that m s jain industries having not used the trade mark in respect of centrifugal pumps for a period more than five years and one month the mark should be taken off the register.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
indisputably appellant filed an application in form tm 24 on 17 6 1986 the assistant registrar trade marks passed an order on 10 11 1986 certifying that the trade mark field marshal brand word per se is registered under no 228867 in part a of the register as of the date 13th.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
in the said c o no 9 of 1986 filed by the first respondent against m s jain industries despite service of notice nobody appeared on behalf of the defendant 16 1 1987 was the date fixed in the said suit.
appellant s counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
in view of that statement a submission was made on behalf of the first respondent that it may be permitted to withdraw the petition with liberty to file a fresh petition on the same cause of action.
i have no objection if the petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
against m s jain industries and the dy.
by an order dated 19 1 1988having regard to the provisions contained in the said act the learned judge opined that appellant having become the registered proprietor of the said trade mark no case for grant of injunction has been made out the interim order of injunction passed on 19 12 1985 was vacated and the defendants were permitted to use their registered trade mark subject to the following conditions a defendants will not use the logo style of the word field marshal of which logo and style the plaintiff is the proprietor under the copyright act.
b defendants shall mention the name of the defendant firm thukral mechanical works sirhind on each and every centrifugal pump manufactured by them and sold in the name of field marshal.
c the defendants shall maintain proper accounts of the sale of centrifugal pumps under the trade mark field marshal and shall file them in court as and when directed.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
a writ petition was filed there against by the first respondent.
before adverting thereto we may take notice of the relevant statutory provisions ss 461b481482 and 56 read as under section 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1 subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub s 3 of s 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application u cl a or cl b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevent date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
any person aggrieved by the absence or omission from the register of any entry or by any entry made in the register without sufficient cause or by any entry wrongly remaining on the register or by any error of defect in any entry in the register may apply in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar and the tribunal may make such order for making expunging or varying the entry as it may think fit.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
concededly cl a of sub s 1 of s 46 is not attracted in the case.
for the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions we may notice the findings of the board as also the high court.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
first respondent withdrew the application against m s jain industries.
3 scc 576 1992 indlaw sc 1107 or in the context of cl 22 of art 366 of the constitution as has been held in h h maharajadhiraja.
it confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
indisputably it would be the registered proprietor.
a registered proprietor of a trade mark should not be permitted to circumvent the law of user of the trade mark for a long time by assigning the same from time to time.
but then such a case has to be made out.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
at the time of grant of original registration advertisements are issued and objections are called for.
a person who had been using the said trade mark as a proprietor thereof by user is supposed to keep itself abreast with such applications filed by another either for registration of the trade mark or renewal thereof.
if the assignee has obtained assignment for bona fide use he may not be fastened with any liability owing to non user on the part of his predecessor.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances co ors 2008 8 scale 354 2008 indlaw sc 1395this court held we do not find any force in the aforementioned submission.
cls a and b operate in different fileds.
had the intention of the parliament been that sub s 3 covers cases falling under cl b and clause ahaving regard to the similarity of the expressions used there was no reason as to why it could not be stated so explicitly.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
but it is another thing to say that the appellant could be proceeded against alone for non user of the registered trade mark for a period of more than five years.
for the purpose of making out such a case both the original registrants as also the assignee were required to be impleaded as parties.
a trade mark which is not used within five years of its registration becomes liable for removal either completely or in respect of those goods or services for which the mark has not been used.
consequential amendments have been made to cover services cl 47 of the bill.
in the suit only the competing right of the first respondent qua the appellant can be determined and not a right against m s such a right can not be determined in a proceeding under s 461b of the act which is restricted to non user of the registered trade mark.
both the appellant and the respondent no 1 were the infringers of the right of m s jain industries as it was the registered proprietor of the trade mark in respect of the goods in question namely centrifugal pumps.
as it takes away somebody s right it deserves strict construction.
a title to a trade mark derived on assignment as provided for under the act can not be equated with a defective title acquired in any other property as admittedly on the date of assignment the right of the registered trade mark was not extinguished.
both the findings of the high court which we have noticed hereinbefore are findings on question of law and in that view of the matter the contention of mr sudhir chandra that the merit of the matter is yet to be gone into by the board can not be a ground for ignoring the submissions made at the bar.
in the case of american home products corporation v mac laboratories pvt ltd.
if that be so any registered proprietor could easily defeat an application for rectification by assigning the mark to some other person to have a fresh period of 5 years from the date of assignment and thus effectively frustrate the very object of the provision in s 471a and b further it is to be noted that an assignment is subject to the provisions of the act and any rights vested in any other person see.
an assigner can transfer only such right which he possesses.
if his title is not extinguished by reason of a provision of a statute for non user of the trade mark for a period of five years any assignment made shall be valid subject to such situation which we have noticed in paragraph 25 supra.
for the views we have taken we are of the opinion that the impugned judgment can not be sustained.
it is set aside accordingly.
counsel s fee assessed at rs 100000.
appeal allowed.
