interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
plot nos 177 and 178 were owned by respondent no 4 herein.
appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of plot no 178 admeasuring 1067 sq m.
he used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
he however did not pursue his case in regard to the proposal for widening of the road.
for the said public purpose viz widening of the road867 sq m of land was taken over leaving only 200 sq m of land.
he did not take any part in the proceedings therefor.
and its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
the said final plot original plot is allotted in lieu of your no 177178 paiki land.
and the said land is now vested in the municipal corporation from 1 7 1999and is of the ownership of the municipal corporation.
thereafter the notice below s 67 for the change in occupation was issued on 15 1 2000 to you.
in spite of this you have not handed over the possession.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
further it appears that if the interest of the landlord and of the tenant is common and in absence of any inter se dispute between the landlord and tenant even if any portion of the land which is in possession of the tenant is included in the scheme the proper remedy for the tenant would be to claim for compensation to that extent and if such compensation is not received by him he may resort to proper remedy available for recovery of the compensation to the extent of the area in his occupation.
at least on ground that the tenant is in occupation it would not be a case for interference with the scheme which is sanctioned and made a part of the statute.
but if the area of original plot no 178 is included in the final scheme and in exchange of the original plot held by keshav gramini of 178 and 177the final plot is already allotted and as observed earlier it was even otherwise in the ownership of the original holder and it is only on account of inter se dispute the other persons are lawfully occupying the land the tenant can not insist that his landlord must be allotted the land of final plot no 157 simultaneously when he is to be evicted or deprived of the portion of the land of original plot no 178 therefore in my view considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case the decision of the apex court in case of mansukhlal1991 indlaw sc 975 supra can not be made applicable to the present case.
a division bench of the high court dismissed an intra court appeal preferred thereagainst.
a tenant having regard to the provisions of the transfer of property act or otherwise having an interest in the property can not be deprived therefrom without following the procedure established by law and without initiation of any proceedings for acquisition of land.
appellant having a right over the remaining 200 sq m of the land of original plot no 178 should be allowed to continue thereupon and final allotment made in favour of the respondent no 3 to that extent should be cancelled.
prashant g desai learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no 1on the other hand would submit.
i public notices having been issued in terms of the rule 26 of the rules an objection which would nullify the scheme can not be entertained at this stage.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
a declaration of intention to make a scheme is to be notified whereafter a draft scheme may be published.
s 52 of the act provides for the contents of preliminary and final scheme.
i after giving notice in the prescribed manner and in the prescribed form to the persons affected by the scheme define and demarcate the areas allotted to or reserved for any public purpose or for a purpose of the appropriate authority and the final plots ii after giving notice as aforesaid determine in a case in which a final plot is to be allotted to persons in ownership in common the shares of such persons.
further sub s 3 of section 65ss 67 and 68 of the act read as under 65 power of government to sanction or refuse to sanction the scheme and effect of sanction.
3 on and after the date fixed in such notification the preliminary scheme or the final scheme as the case may be shall have effect as if it were enacted in this act.
67 effect of preliminary scheme.
a all lands required by the appropriate authority.
shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances b all rights in the original plots which have been re constituted into final plots shall determine and the final plots shall become subject to the rights settled by the town planning officer.
68 power of appropriate authority to evict summarily on and after the date on which a preliminary scheme comes into force any person continuing to occupy any land which he is not entitled to occupy under the preliminary scheme.
for the purpose of preparing the preliminary scheme and final scheme the town planning officer shall give notice in form h of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state the time as provided in rule 37 within which the owner of any property or right which is injuriously affected by the making of a town planning scheme shall be entitled u s 82 to make a claim before him.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
for eviction under section 68the appropriate authority shall follow the following procedure viz.
b if the person to be evicted fails to comply with the requirement of the notice the appropriate authority shall depute any officer or servant to remove him.
c if the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or servant deputed u cl b or.
if he re occupies the land after eviction.
before embarking upon the rival contentions we may also notice that the provisions of the bombay town planning rules1955.
for short the bombay rules are in pari materia with the rules.
any person affected by the proposal of the town planning scheme is entitled to inspect the scheme in the office where arrangements for explaining the scheme proposals are made.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
darji1991 indlaw sc 975 supra wherein this court opined that sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules was mandatory in nature subject of course to the condition that on the crucial date viz when the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette he whether an owner or tenant or sub tenant must be in possession of the property.
but he must be in possession of the property on the crucial date i e when.
every owner or tenant or a sub tenant in possession on that date alone shall be entitled to a notice and opportunity.
amended rules are in pari materia with rule 26 of the rules.
appellant was a tenant in respect of plot no 178 plot no 177 was not a plot contiguous thereto.
a person interested in continuing to keep possession over a property and or a part of the amount of compensation must lay his claim before the appropriate authority at the appropriate stage.
brijendra prasad gupta and others etc air 1997 sc 2745it was opined that the authority is not required to make a roaming enquiry as to who is the person entitled to notice.
we are however not unmindful of the fact that a statute of town planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition of a property.
every step taken by the state does not involve application of the doctrine of eminent domain.
existence of a public purpose and increase in the valuation of the property was admitted.
254opined that when a development is made the owner of the property gets much more than what would have he got if the same remained undeveloped in the process as by reason thereof he gets the benefit of living in a developed town having good town planning.
in maneklal chhotalal1967.
but we intend to emphasise that he has lost his right to enforce the same in a public law forum.
he has no enforceable claim against the state at this juncture.
even if he had a claim he would be deemed to have waived the same for the reasons stated hereinafter.
b he did not file objections for re allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the act.
assuming however that it was obligatory for the state to issue notice to the appellant the question is whether the principle of waiver precludes him from claiming equitable relief in this case due to his earlier conduct which allowed the entire process of acquisition and allotment to become final.
as early as 1957the concept of waiver was articulated in a case involving the late assertion of a claim regarding improper constitution of a tribunal in manak lal v dr prem chand air 1957 sc 425 1957 indlaw sc 159 in the following terms.
as sir johan romilly m r has observed in vyvyan v vyvyan.
they referred with approval to the decision in phillips v martin where the chief justice said here there is abundant evidence of waiver and it is quite clear that a man may by his conduct waive a provision of an act of parliament intended for his benefit.
and now the applicant after all these proceedings have been taken by him after doubtless much expense has been incurred on the part of the caveator and after lying by and hoping to get a judgment of the court in his favour asks the court to do that which but for some reasons known to himself he might have asked the court to do before any other step in the proceedings had been taken.
i think he is altogether too late.
emphasis supplied.
applying the above principles to the present case it must be held that the benefit of notice provided under the act and rules being for the benefit of the appellant in which no public interests are involved he has waived the same.
a right can be waived by the party for whose benefit certain requirements or conditions had been provided for by a statute subject to the condition that no public interest is involved therein.
emphasis supplied see also bank of india v o p swarnakar 2003 2 scc 721 2002 indlaw sc 1562.
in ramdev food products pvt.
arvindbhai rambhai patel and ors 2006 8 scale 631 2006 indlaw sc 786this court observed the matter may be considered from another angle.
he may however take recourse to such remedy which is available with him in law including one by filing a suit or making a representation before the state.
for the reasons aforementioned the appeal is dismissed.
no costs.
appeal dismissed.
