shree shree iswar sridhar jew his two immoveable properties to wit.
grey street in the city of calcutta.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
41 and 401 grey street and appointed his brother jogendra the sole executor thereof.
he died on the 31st january1900 and jogendra obtained on the 24th april 1900.
probate of his said will.
and nagendra then a minor the three sons of rajendra filed a suit being suit no 969 of 1909on.
the original side of the high court at calcutta against jogendra golap sundari and padma dassi the widow of sidheswar another son of rajendra for the construction of the wills of dwarka nath and rajendra for partition and other reliefs.
41 grey street was allotted to the branch of rajendra and the remaining portion was allotted to jogendra absolutely and in consideration of a sum of rs 6500 to be paid to the plaintiffs jogendra was declared entitled absolutely to the premises.
No 401.
grey street.
41 grey street allotted to the branch of rajendra was subsequently numbered 41 a grey street.
disputes arose between bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra the sons of rajendra and one kedar nath ghosh was appointed arbitrator to settle those disputes.
nagendra thereafter executed several mortgages of the said premises.
the first mortgage was created by him in favour of snehalata dutt on the 19th may 1926.
a consent decree was passed in the said suit on the 9th september 1929.
hari pada.
dutt and durga charan dutt for a sum of rs 19000.
a petition made by the purchasers on the 12th january 1937 for setting aside the sale was rejected by the court on the 15th march 1937.
haripada dutt died on the 3rd june 1941 leaving him surviving his three sons pashupati nath dutt shambhunath dutt and kashinath dutt the appellants before us.
41 a and 402 a grey street were its absolute properties and for possession thereof for a declaration that the consent decree dated the 24th november 1910 in suit No 969 of 1909 and the award dated the 12th october 1920 and the dealings made by the heirs of jogendra.
andor rajendra relating to the said premises or any of them purporting to affect its rights in the said premises were invalid and inoperative in law and not binding on it for an account of the dealings with the said premises for a scheme of management of the debutter properties and for its worship for discovery receiver injunction and costs.
No 41 a.
No 402 a grey street as in his opinion sushilabala as executrix to her husband s estate and her two sons had acquired title to the said premises by adverse possession and the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
in regard however to the cross objection relating to premises.
a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution was granted on the 4th june 1951 and the high court admitted the appeal finally on the 6th august 1951.
the said cross objections were however printed as additional record.
it was contended on behalf of the appellants that the dedication of the premises.
No 41.
it was further contended that nagendra by virtue of the award dated the 12th october 1920 claimed to be absolutely entitled to the premises.
grey street and that his possession of the said premises thereafter became adverse which adverse possession continued for upwards of 12 years extinguishing the right of the idol to the said premises.
grey street No 401.
No 41 with a view to preserve it and the taxes etc.
and shall take the municipal bills in his name.
3 of the will is an absolute dedication of the premises.
grey street to the idol as its permanent habitation with only the right given to the sevayats to reside in the said premises for the purposes of carrying on the daily and periodical seva and the festivals etc.
there is thus a clear indication of the intention of the testator to absolutely dedicate the said premises to the deity and it is impossible to urge that there was a partial dedication of the premises to the deity.
the only thing which was urged by shri n c chatterjee in support of his contention was that the right to reside in the premises was given to the sevayats and that according to him detracted from the absolute character of the dedication.
41 grey street to the idol was an absolute dedication.
regards the second contention viz the adverse possession of nagendra it is to be noted that under the terms of cl 3 of the will of dwarka nath the representatives successors and heirs of his two sons rajendra and jogendra were successively to perform the seva in the manner therein mentioned and nagendra was one of the heirs and legal representatives of rajendra.
that he did act as such shebait and that his possession of the premises.
if nagendra was thus a sevayat of the idol it could not be urged that his possession could in any manner whatever be adverse to the idol and his dealings with the said premises in the manner he purported to do after the 12th october 1920 could not be evidence of any adverse possession against the idol.
cal 54 1932 indlaw cal 59.
but in the present case we have to see whether the possession of two joint shebaits becomes adverse to the idol when they openly claim to divide the property between them.
i am quite unable to hold that it does because such a change of intention can only be brought home to the idol by means of the shebait s knowledge and the idol can only react to it by the shebait.
adverse possession in such circumstances is a notion almost void of content.
against the shebaits on the idol s behalf and in the present case it may be said that the acts of the shebaits must have i been notorious in the family.
but such persons have no legal duty to protect the endowment and until the shebait is removed or controlled by the court he alone can act for the idol.
the shebait for the time being is the only person competent to safeguard the interests of the idol his possession of the dedicated property is the possession of the idol whose sevait he is and no dealing of his with the property dedicated to the idol could afford the basis of a claim by him for adverse possession of the property against the idol.
grey street by adverse possession.
appeal dismissed.
