during the year 1948 the appellant made a profit of rs 1197648 11 9.
it paid 24 3 per cent.
dividend on ordinary shares being the maximum that could be paid under the public companies limitation of dividend ordinance of 1948 and also paid to the workers their full share of bonus at annas 4 in a rupee of their basic earnings.
during the year 1949 the selling rates for cloth and yarn were controlled by the government and were approximately 4 per cent.
below those obtained in 1948.
further the management were unable to secure cotton which resulted in the curtailment of the working hours.
as a result of all these circumstances the appellant suffered a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10.
a sum of rs 250000 being the excess reserve for taxation was written back and a sum of rs 1001871 13 5 being the amount of reserve transferred from the investment account was also brought in.
an aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 was thus brought into the balance sheet by these two transfers.
on the 4th may 1950 the secretary of the respondent union petitioned to the provincial conciliation officer textile that there was more production in 1949 than in 1948 that there was no reason to hold that the profit in 1949 was less than in the previous year and that the rate of bonus was wrongly reduced and asked that bonus for 1949 should also be paid at the rate of annas 4 per rupee.
both the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal found as a fact that there was a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10 during the year 1949 and also.
corpus juris secundum volume xi at page 515 ascribes the following meanings to the word bonus an allowance in addition to what is usual current or stipulated a sum given or paid beyond what is legally required to be paid to the recipient something given in addition to what is ordinarily received by or strictly due to the recipient and adds it has been said to carry the idea of something uncertain and indefinite something which may or may not be paid depending on varying circumstances and under particular conditions has been said to imply a benefit accruing to him who offers it and an inducement to the offeree.
it is classified amongst the methods of wage payment.
it also gives another meaning of the word bonus viz increased compensation for services already rendered gratuitously or for a prescribed compensation where there is neither express or implied understanding that additional compensation may be granted.
i do not see why this does not fall within the definition of trade dispute just as much as a dispute as to the rate of wages or salary.
to a similar effect are the observations in kenicott v supervisors of wayne county 1873 83 u s 452 21 l ed.
but second the meaning of the word bonus is not given to it by the objection.
it is thus defined by webster.
and also in great western garment co ltd v minister of national revenue 1948.
d l r 25 233.
but in both cases it is something in addition to or in excess of that which is ordinarily received.
2 l l j 247as.
a return on the working capital at a lesser rate than the return on paid up capital.
the surplus that remained after meeting the aforesaid deductions would be available for distribution as bonus.
if in any particular year the working of the industrial concern has resulted in loss there is no basis nor justification for a demand for bonus.
bonus is not a deferred wage.
because if it were so it would necessarily rank for precedence before dividends the dividends can only be paid out of profits and unless and until profits are made no occasion or question can also arise for distribution of any sum as bonus amongst the employees.
this has been clearly recognised even in the various decisions of the labour appellate tribunal e g nizam sugar factory ltd hyderabad v their workmen 1952.
i l l j 386 textile mills madhya pradesh v their workmen 1952 2 l l j 625and famous cine laboratory v their workmen 1953.
i l l j 466this was also the basis of the demand of the respondent in the case before us its case being that the appellant had reaped substantial profits during the year 1949.
as at present advised a claim for bonus which had been rested on profits earned should ordinarily be determined on the basis of the profits earned in the year under claim and that the scale of bonus should be determined on the quantum of profits earned in the year.
it however observed but in our opinion that should not be the universal rule.
considerations of social justice can not be disregarded altogether in relations between capital and labour.
linking of bonus to dividend would obviously create difficulties.
because if that theory was accepted a company would not declare any dividends but accumulate the profits build up reserves and distribute those profits in the shape of bonus shares or reduce the capital in which event the workers would not be entitled to claim anything as and by way of bonus.
even on a winding up of a company the property of the company would be applied in satisfaction of its liabilities pari passu and unless the articles of association of the company otherwise provided in distribution amongst the members according to their rights and interest in the company.
the employees would in no event be entitled to any share or interest in the assets and the capital of the company.
a transfer of moneys from these reserves or the undistributed profits would therefore not enure for the benefit of the workers.
it has also got to be remembered that the labour force employed in an industrial concern is a fluctuating body and it can not be predicated of the labour force in a particular year that it represents the past and the present workers so that it can claim to demand bonus out of the reserves or undistributed profits of the previous years.
mr isaacs the learned counsel for the respondent.
indeed the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal evolved the abovequoted formula with a view to dispensing social justice between the various parties concerned.
this formula was reiterated in textile mills m p their workmen 1952 2 l l j 625 and famous cine laboratory v their workmen 1953 1 l l j 466 and in the latter case it deprecated the idea of adjudicators importing considerations of social justice which were not comprised in that formula and what is social justice.
it is also significant to note that even while importing considerations of social justice the labour appellate tribunal was oblivious of the fact that it was by their own acts of indiscipline and strike that the workers of the appellant company themselves contributed to the trading losses incurred by the appellant and it hardly lay in their mouth then to contend that they were none the less entitled to a payment of bonus commensurate with the dividend paid to the shareholders out of the undistributed profits of the previous years.
the result therefore is that the decision of the labour appellate tribunal appealed against must be reversed and that of the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur restored.
appeal allowed.
