act liii of 1961 hereinafter referred to as the act which in view of s 21 of the act is the law applicable even to women workers employed in plantations.
while calculating the aforesaid amount of maternity benefit the establishment admittedly excluded twelve sundays being wageless holidays which fell during the period of the respondent s actual absence immediately preceding and including the day of her delivery and the six weeks immediately following that day.
dissatisfied with this computation the respondent made a representation to her employers claiming maternity benefit for the entire period of twelve weeks under the act i e for 84 days on the plea that a week consisted of seven days.
as her demand did not evoke a favourable response the respondent applied to the labour court coimbatore under section 33c2 of the industrial disputes act for redress of her grievance.
by its order dated february 261969the labour court allowed the claim of the respondent.
contending that the claim made by the respondent was untenable as normally a worker works only for six days in a week and the maternity benefit had to be computed only for 72 days.
as against this the respondent pleaded that the computation had to be made not with reference to the actual number of working days but with reference to total number of days covered by twelve weeks i e 84 days.
aggrieved by this decision the respondent filed an appeal u cl 15 of the letters patent which as already stated was allowed by the letters patent bench of the high court observing that the maternity benefit which the respondent was entitled to receive was for the period of her absence before delivery including the day of delivery and also six weeks thereafter each week consisting of seven days including sundays.
dissatisfied with this decision the establishment has already stated come up in appeal to this court by special leave.
he has further urged that since u s 5 1 of the act the maternity benefit has to be computed with reference to the period of the workers actual absence thereby meaning absence on days on which there was work excluding sundays and the term week in the context of sub ss 1 and 3 of s 5 of the act is to be under stood as a week of work consisting of six days and in the instant case respondent no 2 was working and earning wages for six days in a week the seventh day being a wageless holiday her claim can not be sustained.
in support of his contention.
mr pai has referred us to the full bench decision of the kerala high court in malayalam plantations ltd.
cochin v.
inspector of plantation mundakayam.
i c 848  a i r 1975.
bhatt has on the other hand urged that the scheme of s 5 of the act clearly indicates that a woman worker who expects delivery had to be paid maternity benefit for all the seven days of the week including sundays falling within the ante natal and post natal periods specified in the section.
for a proper determination of the question involved in the appeal it would we think be useful to refer to certain provisions of the act which have a bearing on the subject matter of the controversy before us.
2 incentive bonus and 3 the money value of the concessional supply of food grains and other articles but does not include.
5 right to payment of maternity.
no woman shall be entitled to maternity benefit unless she has actually worked in an establishment of the employer from whom she claims maternity benefit for a period of not less than one hundred and sixty days in the twelve months immediately preceding the date of her expected delivery.
provided that the qualifying period of one hundred and sixty days aforesaid shall not apply to a woman who has immigrated into the state of assam and was pregnant at the time of the immigration.
for the purpose of calculating under this sub section the days on which a woman has actually worked in the establishment the days for which she has been laid off during the period of twelve months immediately preceding the date of her expected delivery shall be taken into account.
provided that where a woman dies during this period the maternity benefit shall be payable only for the days up to and including the day of her death.
in the case of a woman who is pregnant such notice shall state the date from which she will be absent from work not being a date earlier than six weeks from the date of her expected delivery.
6 the failure to give notice under this section s not disentitle a woman to maternity benefit or any other amount under this act if she is otherwise entitled to such benefit or amount and in any such case an inspector may either of his own motion or on an application made to him by the woman order the payment of such benefit of amount within such period as may be specified in the order.
according to the explanation appended to s 51 of the act the average daily wage has to be computed taking into consideration the average of the woman s wager payable to her for the days on which she has worked during the period of three calendar months immediately preceding the date from which she absents herself on account of maternity or one rupee a day whichever is higher.
for fixing the average daily wage it has therefore first to be ascertained whether the wages with were paid or were payable to the woman was for time work or for piece work.
after thus finding out the average daily wage the liability of the employer in respect of the maternity benefit has to be calculated in terms of s 5 of the act for both ore natal and post natal period indicated above.
a week according to halsbury s laws of england.
bearing in mind the above mentioned dictionary or popular meaning of the term.
again the word period occurring in s 51 of the act is a strong word.
it has also to be borne in mind in this connection that in interpreting provisions of beneficial pieces of legislation like the one in hand which is intended to achieve the object of doing social justice to women workers employed in the plantations and which squarely fall within the purview of art 42 of the constitution the beneficent rule of construction which would enable the woman worker not only to subsist but also to make up her dissipated energy nurse her child preserve her efficiency as a worker and maintain the level of her previous efficiency and output has to be adopted by the court.
2 the rates of cash benefit shall be fixed by national laws or regulations so as to ensure benefit sufficient for the full and healthy maintenance of herself and her child in according with a suitable standard of living.
in the result the appeal fails and is hereby dismissed.
although costs have to be paid by appellant to respondent no 2 in terms of the court s order dated october 301975yet in view of the fact that the said respondent has not chosen to appear at the hearing of the case and mr k n bhat has assisted the court as amicus curiae we direct the appellant to pay rs 1000 to mr bhat as his fee.
appeal dismissed.
