hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
the appellant claimed to be the tenant in respect of the two premises which are quite adjacent to each other one of which is involved in this appeal.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine.
bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
the present appellant who was the original defendant no 1 claimed to be a partner.
the main controversy was whether the appellant had sublet the premises to defendant no 2bharat neon signs or whether he being a partner of the said firm had permitted the said firm to use the premises in question.
however the document is silent as to where the business was started.
on or about 24th of october1960.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
in 1965 some partners retired and the remaining four partners executed a fresh partnership deed exhibit 117 on 1st.
april1965 this last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants.
nos 34 and 5.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
it is well settled that if there was such a partnership firm of which the appellant was a partner as a tenant the same would not amount to subletting leading to the forfeiture of the tenancy.
for this proposition see the decision of the gujarat high court in the case of mehta jagjivan vanechand v doshi vanechand harakhchand and others.
a i r 1972 gujarat 6 1970 indlaw guj 68 thakkar j of the gujarat high court as the learned judge then was held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession.
indlaw sc 748.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
it accordingly decreed the suit for possession instituted by the landlord.
the suit inter alia was filed by the landlord on the ground of subletting.
in the premises the appeal was allowed.
it may be mentioned that the respondent no 1 is the landlord of two premises which were quite adjacent as mentioned before.
the respondent plaintiff had alleged in both the suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased to him for conducting his business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
it may be mentioned that by the time the revision petition came to be decided by the high court the suit had been decreed in his favour directing a dissolution of the said partnership and directing taking of the accounts.
this was set aside in appeal.
the high court in revision reversed that finding.
the first question therefore is whether the high court could do so in the facts of this case and secondly whether the high court was right in so doing.
that has to be found in section 4 of the indian partnership act1932it says partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all emphasis supplied.
it is true that in the partnership deeds the bank accounts were not to be operated by the appellant and further that irrespective of the profit.
but there is nothing illegal about it.
the appellant was to bring his asset being the tenancy of the premises in question for the user of the partnership.
the appellate court had considered the partnership deeds.
secondly it was emphasised by mr mehta that the partnership deed was a camouflage.
it is evident from the sales tax registration and other registration certificates and licences under the shops and establishments act that the partnership was registered in the name of the appellant and the appellant was also indicated as a partner.
but the question is from the three deeds itself which were examined in detail by the court of small causes and which were re examined by the high court could it be said unequivocally that there was no partnership.
though the decree in the dissolution suit was not binding in these proceedings inter se between the parties as partners it is a piece of evidence which can not be wholly ignored.
all these factors were present before the court of small causes.
in the eye of law such a clause is really non sequitur or neutral proving neither the existence nor non existence of a genuine firm.
the first partnership deed which is exhibit 114 is dated 13th october1960 it recited that the partnership firm should be presently started at ahmedabad and the same should later be started in another city.
in this the appellant was not a partner.
it recited that the partnership started from 4th of october1960 at ahmedabad.
it is embodied in the deeds the functioning of the partnership.
1 the entire work of our partnership has to be carried out in the name of bharat neon signs.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
in any event all these factors were considered by the court of small causes bearing in mind the correct legal principles.
the said section reads as follows 351.
unless the statute conferring the right to appeal limits the re hearing in some way.
it is very much wider than that when in the opinion of the high court the decision is erroneous on the question of law which affects the merits of the case or decision was manifestly unjust the high court is entitled to interfere.
this principle was reiterated in krishnawati v hans raj1974 2 s c r 524 1973 indlaw sc 208 which was dealing with section 392 of the delhi rent control act1958 in second appeal.
in that case the question whether the appellant was legally married no finding was necessary in the eviction suit.
it was sufficient for the rent court to proceed on the finding that the appellant and s were living together as husband and wife whether they were legally married or not.
it was further held that whether there was subletting was not a mixed question of law and fact.
in phiroze bamanji desai v chandrakant m patel ors 1974 3 scr 267 1974 indlaw sc 282 the question involved was whether there was reasonable and bona fide requirement of premises for personal use and occupation as also the question of greater hardship under the bombay rent act and the ambit and scope of the power of section 293 of the said act with which we are concerned came up for consideration.
it extended to corrections of all errors which would make the decision contrary to law.
he dealt with the human problem under section 132 of bombay rent act considering the relative hardships of the landlord and the tenant and to arrive at a just solution he was of the opinion that the court should have such wide field.
in this view in our opinion the ambit of the power was expressed in rather wide amplitude.
as we read the power the high court must ensure that the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind.
it must be such a decision which no reasonable man could have arrived at.
if a possible view has been taken the high court would be exceeding its jurisdiction to substitute its own view with that the courts below because it considers it to be a better view.
the fact that the high court would have taken a different view is wholly irrelevant.
in the case of punamchandra revashankar joshi v ramjibhai maganlal gujarat law reporter.
1966the gujarat high court after dealing with the gujarat amendment act xviii of 1965 observed that the legislature has not intended to equate the ambit of the power with the one exercised in an appeal.
the authority vested in the high court under the amendment still remained only in the domain of the jurisdiction and power of revision and no further.
this court in the case of bhai chand ratanshi v laxmishanker tribhavan1982 1 rent control journal 2421981.
indlaw sc 244 observed that where lower courts applied their minds properly in deciding a matter under section 132 of the bombay rent act the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence under section 292 of the act as substituted by the gujarat act 18 of 1965 this court reiterated that although the high court had wider power than that which could be exercised under section 115 of c p c yet its revisional power could only be exercised for a limited purpose with a view to satisfying itself that the decision was according to law.
in the instant case the basic question is whether keeping in background the partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore and the facts that came to light was there partnership or not.
he also referred to section 4 of the partnership act about the principles of partnership namely1 there must be agreement entered into by all the persons concerned 2 the agreement must be to share the profits of a business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
in the instant case judged by the aforesaid principles it is possible to hold that there was a partnership of which the appellant was a partner.
if that was so there was nothing that could be clone about such a view within the ambit and scope of the power of section 292 of the rent act.
the mere fact that another is allowed to use the premises while the lessee retains the legal possession is not enough to create a sub lease.
in the light of the aforesaid principles and the facts that have emerged we are of the opinion that the high court exceeded its jurisdiction under section 292 of the rent act.
and it was a possible view to take.
in the result the appeal is allowed and the judgment and order of the gujarat high court dated 21st of august1979 are set aside.
appeal allowed.
