in 1954there was wakfnama by the said sail nawaz jung.
the military estate officer secunderabad of.
andhra pradesh requested for the requisition of the property named as sail gulshan with a vast extent of land and palaces with roads and surrounded by a compound wail measuring 19 acres and 10 guntas situated in the heart of hyderabad city near sarojini devi hospital.
in this appeal we are concerned with the claim for compensation for the said acquisition by one abdul khader who was a flower picker.
he had claimed rights as a tenant during the requisition.
hereinafter called the central act the gazette notification for the acquisition was issued on 12th march1970 the controversy in this case relates to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant under the andhra pradesh telangana area.
act no xxi of 1950.
hereinafter called the andhra pradesh act.
s 2r states that the expression protected means a person who is deemed to be a protected tenant under the provisions of the said act.
chapter iv of the andhra pradesh act deals with protected tenants and s 34 of the said act provides who is to be considered as a protected tenant and uses the expression that a person shall subject to the provisions of sub ss 2 and 3be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of the land if he has fulfilled the conditions mentioned in clauses a and b of sub s 1 of s 34 of the said act.
sub s 2 of s 34 of the said act also deals with to be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of any landfor certain purposes.
sub s 2 of s 35 stipulates that a declaration by the tahsildar that the person is deemed to be a protected tenant or in the event of an appeal from the tahsildar s decision such declaration by the collector on first appeal or by the board of revenue on second appeal shall be conclusive that such person is a protected tenant and his rights as such shall be recorded in the record of right of where there is no record of rights in such village record as may be prescribed.
sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides that if a protected tenant dies without leaving any heirs all his rights shall be so extinguished.
it is as follows 99 bar of jurisdiction 1.
save as provided in this act.
s 7 authorises the central government where it is of the opinion that it is necessary to do so to acquire requisitioned property.
suspecting that the entry in the protected tenancy register might not be genuine on or about 24th of october1970 the tahsildar passed an order cancelling that entry.
sd tahsildar.
hyderabad west taluk.
in the appeal of abdul khader the proceedings of revenue divisional officer while questioning entry of the name of abdul khader in the register is a genuine one or net and while it is stated that it was entered in the register in such suspicious way by giving serial no 1 a between serial nos 1 and 2 of register being exhibit a 106 and exhibit a 107it ultimately held that abdul khader was a protected tenant under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act.
on or about 19th of april1972.
he held further that khasra pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of abdul khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the protected tenancy register prepared under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act was supported by an enquiry.
it was in those circumstances held by him that the entry was a spurious one.
under these circumstances the c r p is dismissed with a direction that the entry made in the final record of tenancies that the petitioner was the protected tenant for the lands in question which is spurious as found by both the revenue divisional officer and the district revenue officer should be deleted.
u s 81b of the central act.
claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator claim petition was also filed by abdul khader claiming 60 of compensation as a protected tenant.
despite the objection exercising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question of protected tenant the arbitrator held that abdul khader was a protected tenant.
aggrieved by the aforesaid award the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the high court.
appointed advocate commissioner to record additional evidence.
dr chitale learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the high court should be directed to consider the issues relating to the jurisdiction of the arbitrator appointed and functioning under the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act195 i to decide whether a person is protected tenant of an agricultural land or not in the light of ss 99 and 102 of the andhra pradesh telangana area.
other c m ps were filed for clarification of the second part of the order dated 19th august1985 and this court on 29th november1985 in cmps.
in the judgment under appeal which is directed against the award made by the arbitrator formulated the following four issues  1 what is the value of the land 2 who are entitled to the compensation amount 3 whether abdul khader is a protected tenant of sail gulshan of the area 19 02 guntas excluding the land of buildings wells etc and 4 what share is to be apportioned to successors of sail nawaz jung.
it has to be borne in mind that in the award the arbitrator after exhaustively discussing the evidence on record held that abdul khader was a protected tenant and as such further held that he was entitled to 60 of the compensation money payable for the acquisition of the land excluding the land of buildings wells etc.
a i r 1985 s c 1576 1985 indlaw sc 246 on the question of solarium and interest on the amount awarded.
we are also not concerned with this aspect of the matter inasmuch as the same is the subject matter of another appeal being civil appeal no 4406 of 1986.
section 37a was enacted on 12th of march1956 the high court was however of the view that it can not be said that it was for the revenue authorities alone to decide the issue because the arbitrator was ordered to decide the issue by the high court on 19th august1974 and by this court on 30th of january1975 the high court also referred to the directions of this court dated 19th august1985 mentioned hereinbefore.
aggrieved by the aforesaid decision the appellants being the successor of the owner of the land in question is in appeal before us.
the arbitrator therefore exceeded his jurisdiction and the high court was in error.
the question of abdul khader s right to compensation had to be decided in accordance with law.
he had claimed rights of a protected tenant.
on behalf of the appellant it was submitted that there was a complete bar for any civil court to go into the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant and as such the arbitrator and the high court had no jurisdiction to decide this question.
for this reliance was placed on s 102 of the andhra pradesh act which lays down that the act will not apply to lands leased granted alienated or acquired in favour of or by the central government or the state government etc and on s 99 of the act which bars the jurisdiction of civil courts to deal with any question which is under the andhra pradesh act required to be settled to be decided or dealt with by the tahsildar tribunal or collector.
according to the appellant inasmuch as whether abdul khader was a protected tenant had not to be settled by the collector or the tribunal the arbitrator and the high court were in error in going to that question.
by the scheme of the central act compensation was payable to persons who had interest in the land acquired.
determination by the revenue authorities and non determination is not conclusive or decisive.
we are of the opinion that the high court was not in error in so holding.
the arbitrator has done so.
he had jurisdiction to do so.
furthermore under s 99 of the andhra pradesh act the bar was not against the arbitrator but against a civil court.
in another context the high court of andhra pradesh enunciated the position that it was necessary to determine the interest of the persons claiming compensation.
he has a right to object to the acquisition andor the quantum of compensation.
we may mention that in the two orders of this court dated 30th of january1975 and 19th of august1985 referred to herein before this court had left it open to the high court and to the arbitrator to decide whether he is a protected tenant or not the arbitrator has decided that question and the high court found over whelming evidence in support of it.
in that view of the matter we must uphold that decision however unsatisfactory.
let it be.
in the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail and is accordingly dismissed with costs.
appeal dismissed.
