a petition was filed under article 226 of the constitution by respondent no 1 seeking for a writ of mandamus to treat the members of the respondent union who are employees working in the canteen of the appellants factory as employees of the appellant and for grant of monetary and other consequential benefits.
he therefore held that when a public duty is called upon to be discharged by a private management a writ of mandamus would lie and could be issued under article 226 of the constitution.
he thus rejected the contention.
on that basis the learned single judge granted reliefs sought for by the respondents however imposing certain restrictions with regard to the age being medically fit on the date of the writ petition had put in a minimum of three years of continuous service and such service prior to the attainment of the minimum qualifying age under the company should be ignored.
on appeal the division bench of the high court affirmed the view taken by the learned single judge.
air 1996 ap 430 1996 indlaw ap.
302that a writ in the nature of mandamus certiorari and prohibition are recognised as public law remedies and are not available to enforce private law rights.
however noticing that the expression any person or authority used in article 226 of the constitution should not be confined only to statutory authorities and instrumentalities of state but would cover any other person or body performing public duty.
on that basis the division bench of the high court dismissed the writ appeal.
hence this appeal.
1989 2 scc 691 1989.
indlaw sc 589to contend that mere running of a factory to manufacture and sell of cigarettes can never be considered to be a public duty much less an incident thereto such as providing a canteen to its workmen.
in that background it was observed that if the rights are purely of a private character no mandamus could be issued and also if the management of the college were purely a private body with no public duty mandamus would not lie.
in that case the respondent was managing the affiliated college to which public money is paid as government aid which played a major role in the control maintenance and working of educational institutions.
it was further explained in that decision that the term authority used in article 226 of the constitution should receive a liberal meaning unlike the term in article 12which is only for the purpose of enforcement of fundamental rights under article 32 the words any person or authority used in article 226 are therefore not be confined only to statutory authorities or instrumentalities of the state but would cover any other person or body performing public duty.
in de smith woolf and jowells judicial review of administrative action5th edn.
by way of illustration it is noticed that a private company selected to run a prison although motivated by commercial profit should be regarded at least in relation to some of its activities as subject to public law because of the nature of the function it is performing.
this is because the prisoners for whose custody and care it is responsible are in the prison in consequence of an order of the court and the purpose and nature of their detention is a matter of public concern and interest.
2 the principles of judicial review prima facie govern the activities of bodies performing public functions.
in such a case that branch of the law and its remedies should and normally will be applied and b where there is a contract between the litigants.
in such a case the express or implied terms of the agreement should normally govern the matter.
the high court has relied very strongly on the decision of a learned single judge in t gattaiahs case wherein it was stated that a writ may lie under article 226 of the constitution against a company incorporated under the companies act1956 as it is permissible to issue a writ against any person.
in anadi muktas case this court examined the various aspects and the distinction between an authority and a person and after analysis of the decisions referred in that regard came to the conclusion that it is only in the circumstances when the authority or the person performs a public function or discharges a public duty article 226 of the constitution can be invoked.
manufacture and sale of cigarettes will not involve any public function.
incidental to that activity there is an obligation under section 46 of the act to set up a canteen when the establishment has more than 250 workmen.
in other words it is only a labour welfare device for the benefit of its work force unlike a provision where pollution control act makes it obligatory even on a private company not to discharge certain effluents.
in such cases public duty is owed to the public in general and not specific to any person or group of persons.
if merely what can be considered a part of the conditions of service of a workman is violated then we do not think there is any justification to hold that such activity will amount to public duty.
thus we are of the view that the high court fell into error that appellant is amenable to writ jurisdiction.
this court in indian petrochemicals corporation ltd anr vs.
shramik sena ors.
439 1999 indlaw sc 513referred to the decisions in parimal chandra rahas case reserve bank of india vs workmen1996.
3 scc 267and m m r khan vs union of india1990 supp.
in the present case the findings recorded by the learned single judge on examination of the facts available is that there had been a canteen within the premises of the appellant up to the year 1982 and it is only from 1982 onwards the management of the canteen has been entrusted to a private contractor that even after change of the contractor the canteen workers have continued to be the same irrespective of the change in the contractors from time to time that wages were paid to the workmen in the canteen by the management through the contractor that the appellant has provided the accommodation furniture fuel electricity utensils etc.
that the management exercises control over the standard in quality quantity and the rate of the food items supplied to the workmen for whose benefit the canteen is established.
we do agree that the respondents have a strong case on merits.
civil appeal nos 653397 653497.
w 50 and obtained ex.
w12 and w14 from 1 april 1979 with all consequential and attendant benefits of arrears of pay etc together with counting of entire service for the purpose of terminal benefits.
against this award a writ petition was filed before the high court.
the high court dismissed the same stating that it is covered by another matter.
however there is no material on record to show that the canteen is located in such an area where it would be hazardous to have a fire furnace source of heat or light to cook food.
in the absence of such material we find no substance in this contention.
this contention is also rejected.
in the circumstances aforesaid the contention vis vis the findings recorded by the tribunal we find absolutely no merit in these appeals and the same shall stand dismissed.
