the criminal reference and the criminal appeal were heard by a division bench of rajasthan high court.
the two learned judges constituting the division bench differed in their opinion.
in the opinion of one learned judge the circumstantial evidence on which rests the prosecution case was not sufficient to record a finding of guilty against the appellant on any of the charges framed against him.
in the result the high court has declined the confirmation of death sentence but upheld the conviction on both the charges found proved and dismissed the appeal laying challenge to the conviction subject to modification in the sentence by substituting sentence of life imprisonment for death sentence under section 302 ipc.
kumari s a young child aged about 5 years was last seen at about 4 p m on 18th march 1991 and thereafter she did not return home.
at about 7 a m on 19th march 1991 kishori lal pw4 informed bd pw2 the unfortunate father of s that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
bd rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
a noose was also found around her neck.
at 7 25 a m on 19 3 1991 first information report was lodged by bd at police station kotputli.
the dead body was sent for post mortem examination which was performed at 9 30 a m on the same day by a medical board of three doctors.
according to the medical opinion the probable cause of death of s was shock produced due to vaginal trauma and rupture of post fornix along with asphyxia due to ligature around the neck.
all injuries found on the person of the victim could be around 6 of 24 hours old prior to the time of post mortem examina tion.
the clothes were removed from the dead body and seized.
on 4 4 1991 he was medically examined.
according to report exbt.
human semen was detected on underwear.
it is not necessary here to extensively deal with the evidence adduced by the prosecution.
we would proceed to examine each of the pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence so as to find out if each one of the circumstantial evidence is proved individually and whether collectively it forges such a chain of incriminating circumstances as would fasten the guilt on the accused beyond by shadow of reasonable doubt.
in dhananjoy chatterjee v state of west bengal 1994 2 scc 220 1994 indlaw sc 1743 wherein one of us dr a s anand j as his lordship then was spoke for the bench.
in dhananjoy chatterjee s case 1994 indlaw sc 1743 supra the decision of this court in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 was relied on.
the witness is a child witness of very tender age and examined in the court almost a year after the date of the incident.
we have very carefully read the statement of this witness.
from the evi dence of shalu pw7 such an inference can not be drawn.
goma to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon has not been examined.
s has died.
the third girl who was with s and shalu has not been examined either in the court or during investigation.
harish chand sharma the investigating officer was specifically asked how the name of this witness came to his knowledge during investigation.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
he and santosh.
during cross examination kalu ram stated that the accused was his neighbour previously known to him.
it appears that to begin with the death of s was a blind murder and the police was clue less about the likely offender.
he did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
however the accused was not detained and was sent back.
placed in such situation if a villager unaware of the law happens to ask a person who he feels knows the things better than what he himself does as to what would be the period of incarceration to be suffered by any person for such an offence the impulse for inquiry may be outcome of a feeling of nervousness or mere inquisitiveness such an enquiry is not necessarily suggestive of the working of a criminal mind.
insofar as baniyan is concerned it has no stains of any type on it and therefore its discovery and seizure is meaningless and irrelevant.
blood sam ple of the accused was not collected and therefore not grouped.
sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
in diameter on the appellant s pant and of a dried stain of semen on his under pant were circumstances for too feeble to establish that the appellant raped or murdered the victim.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
false plea of alibi.
the high court has gone completely amiss in holding that a plea of alibi was taken by the accused and that was found to be false.
p c and nowhere suggested during cross examination of prosecution witnesses that at the time of the incident he was at a place wherefrom he could not have reached the place of the offence on the date and at the time of its commission.
this piece of evidence was put to the accused during his statement under section 313 cr.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
see law lexicon p ramnath iyer second edition p 87.
denial by an accused of an assertion made by his employer that the accused was on leave of absence from duty on the date of offence does not by any stretch of reasoning or logic amount to pleading alibi.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so called absconding as a piece of incrimi nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
from village kotputli where the incident had taken place.
the memo of arrest does not state the arrest of accused having been made at behror.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
at least this fact should have been mentioned in the memo of arrest even if the same was prepared at village kotputli.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit s case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
before parting with the case we would like to place on record an observation of ours touching an aspect of the case.
there are clueless crimes committed.
the factum of a cognizable crime having been committed is known but neither the identity of the accused is disclosed nor is there any indication available of the witnesses who would be able to furnish useful and relevant evidence.
a vigilant investigating officer well versed with the techniques of the job is in a position to collect the threads of evidence finding out the path which leads to the culprit.
the evidence of investigating officer given in the court should have a rhythm explaining step by step how the investigation proceeded leading to detection of the offender and collection of evidence against him.
the appeals are allowed.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
he is acquitted of the charges framed against him.
appeals allowed.
