the brief facts leading to the filing of the above appeal are as under.
f i r was prepared on the report of mr m k verma who forwarded the f i r before zonal engineer who ordered to issue notice under section 343344 of the delhi municipal corporation act1957 for short the dmc act subsequently the second respondent along with kuldeep singh were prosecuted for commission of offences under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act before the designated municipal court.
aggrieved by that order the second respondent accused filed an appeal before the sessions court delhi.
against the judgment and order dated 23 3 2004the accused filed criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 before the high court delhi.
at the time of arguments the advocate for the accused submitted before the high court that the accused did not wish to challenge the conviction on merits and stated it a fit case of accused to be admitted to the benefit of pob act on the ground that the accused faced trial for 12 years in the lower courts and remained in jail for three days.
besides that he has already undergone some period in custody.
we have perused the entire pleadings orders and judgments passed by the lower courts and also of the high court the other annexures in particular annexures p 1 and p 2and records annexed to this appeal and also heard the arguments of mr ashwani kumar learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant mr vikas sharma learned counsel appearing for respondent no 1 and mr jaspal singh learned senior counsel appearing for the second respondent.
he further submitted that the high court while passing the impugned order and judgment did not take into consideration that the accused respondent had been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997 by the court of metropolitan magistrate patiala house new delhi.
no 185 of 2004 be set aside and appropriate orders be passed in this appeal.
it was further contended that the respondent has not contested the revision in the high court on merits and confined his submission to the benefit of section 4 of the pob act being extended to him.
he further contended that the trial court has committed serious error in exercising jurisdiction while not granting the benefit of probation to the answering respondent and the order of the trial court was therefore rightly and justifiable modified by the high court.
concluding his arguments he submitted that the respondent has been released after compliance of the order passed by the high court by furnishing the bone of good conduct and security to the satisfaction of the additional court of metropolitan magistrate delhi and there is no report of any misconduct or breach of the bond of good conduct by the answering respondent since the date of the order of the high court therefore the order of the high court is not liable to be interfered with.
in the above background two questions of law arise for consideration by this court 1 whether the high court was correct in extending the benefit of the probation of offenders act1958 to the accused respondent without calling for a report from the authorities relating to the conduct of the respondent as per section 4 of the act.
2 whether.
1 when any person is found guilty of having committed an offence not punishable with death or imprisonment for life and the court by which the person is found guilty is of opinion that having record to the circumstances of the case including the nature of the offence and the character of the offender it is expedient to release him on probation of good conduct then notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force the court may instead of sentencing him at once to any punishment direct that he be released on his entering into a bond with or without sureties to appear and receive sentence when called upon during such period not exceeding three years as the court may direct and in the meantime to keep the peace and be of good behaviour provided that the court shall no direct such release of an offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety if any has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
2 before making any order under sub section.
1the court shall take into consideration the report if any of the probation officer concerned in relation to the case.
the trial court heard the respondent on sentence also and passed the following order convict in person with counsel heard on sentence.
he is not a previous convict nor habitual offender.
he has faced trail since 1991 he is aged about 57 years.
he is not doing any business due to his bad health.
considering the above facts and circumstances and gravity of the nature of the offence i e extent of construction raised by the accused for commercial as 11 shops at ground floor and 11 shops at first floor i am not inclined to release the accused convict on probation.
hence request declined.
fine deposited.
convict remained for sentence.
in our opinion he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well as on the opposite party.
a litigant who approaches the court is bound to produce all documents which are relevant to the litigation.
we however part with this case with heavy heart expressing our strong disapproval of the conduct and behaviour but direct that the second respondent to pay a sum of rs 10000 by way of cost to the appellant herein.
it applied to all kinds of offenders whether under or above 21 years of age.
the word shall in sub section 2 of section 4 is mandatory and the consideration of the report of the probationer officer is a condition precedent to the release of the accused as reported in the case of state v naguesh g shet govenkar and anr air 1970.
goa 49 1969 indlaw goa 8 and a release without such a report.
would therefore be illegal.
in the case of ram singh and ors v.
this plea can not be entertained in this court.
1979 crl.
before deciding to act under s 4 1it is mandatory on the part of the court to call for a report from the probation officer and if such a report is received it is mandatory on the part of the court to consider the report.
but if for one reason or the other such a report is not forthcoming the court has to decide the matter on other materials available to it.
held the requirement of s 41 was not fulfilled and therefore the case remanded.
appeal allowed.
