he was also to be the chairman of the departmental promotion committee for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
the commissioner allegedly made certain appointments in the posts of mandols process servers and zilladars which was not within the knowledge of the state.
the said appointments were made on temporary basis.
appointments were made on 11 09 199722 11 1997 and 5 12 1997 a sample copy of the offer of appointment reads as under no 11497 com rev on the recommendation of d p c and under the directives issued by the honourable gauhati high court the following persons are hereby appointed as mandols on temporary basis in the scale of pay of rs 950 20 1150 eb 25 1400 per month with usual allowances against thereto existing clear vacancies of mandals under revenue department from the date of their joining on duties.
2 further they are posted at the places indicate against their names 3 the expenditure is debitable under appropriate heads of accounts of the departments offices concerned.
an inquiry was therefore made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
imphal the 12th jan.
1998 sub submission of report.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
a r khan secretary revenue has made many appointments of mandols process servers zilladars in the recent months against which i have been complaining that the secretary revenue has no power or authority to make any appointments of field staff as per rules provided under m l r act1960 in this regard i have apprised the matter to the honourable minister revenue already and also informed the chief secretary manipur explaining that the secretary revenue can not make such appointments of field staffs even if he wanted to do so all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the honourable minister revenue his action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
submitted for information and consideration.
govt of manipur minister revenue.
temp i please read as august97 in place of october97 occurring in the 4th line of this government order no 21593 comrev.
temp i dated 17 2 1998.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
4 that after my retirement some of the writ petitioners civil rule no 568 of 1998came to me and show copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit of the respondent no 12 and 3 i have gone through the copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit and annexures thereto.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
dated 11 9 97 annexure a2 to the writ petition appointing 4 persons to the post of mandol are perused by me minutely.
i submit that these appointment orders annexures a1 and a2 bear my signature initial and appear to have been issued under my signature.
chief election commissioner delhi and ors air 1978 sc 851 1977 indlaw sc 53.
mr jaideep gupta learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants would submit that the high court went wrong in passing the impugned judgment insofar as it failed to take into consideration that in a case of this nature it was not necessary to comply with the principles of natural justice.
air 1958 sc 36 1957 indlaw sc 103murugayya udayar and another.
1991 supp 1 scc 331 1991 indlaw sc 904 and kumari shrilekha vidyarthi and others v state of u p and others 1991 1 scc 212 1990 indlaw sc 463.
any action which had not been taken by an authority competent therefor and in complete violation of the constitutional and legal framework would not be binding on the state.
it was thus for them to establish existence of a legal right in their favour and a corresponding legal duty in the respondents to continue to be employed.
the commissioner furthermore was not the appointing authority.
he was only a cadre controlling authority.
he was merely put a chairman of the dpc for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
even assuming that dpc would mean selection committee there is noting on record to show who were its members and how and at whose instance it was constituted.
even the affidavit affirmed by shri tayeng before the high court in this behalf is silent.
the government order dated 12 01 1998 did not delegate the power of appointment to the commissioner.
he therefore was wholly incompetent to issue the appointment letters.
in a case of this nature where the facts are admitted the principles of natural justice were not required to be complied with particularly when the same would result in futility.
in kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 suprathis court was dealing with a question in regard to continuance of the law officers.
35 it is now too well settled that every state action in order to survive must not be susceptible to the vice of arbitrariness which is the crux of art 14 of the constitution and basic to the rule of law the system which governs us.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
we may on the other hand notice that kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 supra has been distinguished by this court in state of u p and others v u p state law officers association and others 1994 2 scc 204 1994 indlaw sc 1289 stating the reliance placed by the respondents in this behalf on shrilekha vidyarthi v state of u p 1990 indlaw sc 463 is misplaced for the obvious reason that the decision relates to the appointment of the district government counsel and the additional assistant district government counsel who are the law officers appointed by the state government to conduct civil criminal and revenue cases in any court other than the high court.
the renewal of their further term again depends upon the quality of work and conduct capacity as a lawyer professional conduct public reputation in general and character and integrity as certified by the district magistrate and the district judge.
for the said purpose the district magistrate and the district judge are required to maintain a character roll and a record of the work done by the officer and the capacity displayed by him in discharge of the work.
his work is also subject to strict supervision.
the shortcomings in the work are required to be brought to the notice of the legal remembrancer.
having been selected on merit and for no other consideration they are entitled to continue in their office for the period of the contract of their engagement and they can be removed only for valid reasons.
cl 2 protects government servants against being dismissed or removed or reduced in rank without being given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to them.
it has been said in jayanti prasad v state of uttar pradesh 1951 indlaw all 27 that these are technical words used in cases in which a persons services are terminated by way of punishment.
chief constable of the thames valley police forces ex p cotton by giving six reasons see also his article should public law remedies be discretionary.
a detailed and emphatic criticism of the useless formality theory has been made much earlier in natural justice substance or shadow by prof d h clark of canada 1975 pl27 63 contending that malloch and glynn were wrongly decided.
foulkes craig and others say that the court can not prejudge what is to be decided by the decision making authority de smith says courts have not yet committed themselves to any one view though discretion is always with the court.
we may however point out that even in cases where the facts are not all admitted or beyond dispute there is a considerable unanimity that the courts can in exercise of their discretion refuse certiorari prohibition mandamus or injunction even though natural justice is not followed.
in the former case it can be waived while in the case of the latter it can not be waived.
the same can not be supplemented by fresh reasons in the shape of affidavit or otherwise.
for the reasons aforementioned the impugned judgments can not be sustained.
they are set aside accordingly.
the appeals are allowed.
no costs.
appeal allowed.
