before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of plot no 178 admeasuring 1067 sq m.
he used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
in respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re allotment of the land despite a public notice the appellant did not file any objection.
he did not take any part in the proceedings therefor.
and its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
and the said land is now vested in the municipal corporation from 1 7 1999and is of the ownership of the municipal corporation.
in spite of this you have not handed over the possession.
therefore as per the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 rule 33 the undersigned in exercise of powers conferred below s 681 and 82 of the bombay provincial municipalities act and below the s 68 notice under the gujarat town planning and urban development act this is to inform you that as shown in the sketch on the reverse the premises marked should be vacated within 7 days from receipt of the notice and had over the possession to the surat municipal corporation.
the validity and or legality of the said notice was questioned by the appellant by filing a writ petition in the high court of gujarat inter alia contending that the purported final allotment of plot no 165 in favour of the respondent no 3 and allotment of final plot no 157 in favour of the respondent no 4 were made without issuing any notice as envisaged u ss 52 and 53 of the act.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
at least on ground that the tenant is in occupation it would not be a case for interference with the scheme which is sanctioned and made a part of the statute.
but if the area of original plot no 178 is included in the final scheme and in exchange of the original plot held by keshav gramini of 178 and 177the final plot is already allotted and as observed earlier it was even otherwise in the ownership of the original holder and it is only on account of inter se dispute the other persons are lawfully occupying the land the tenant can not insist that his landlord must be allotted the land of final plot no 157 simultaneously when he is to be evicted or deprived of the portion of the land of original plot no 178 therefore in my view considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case the decision of the apex court in case of mansukhlal1991 indlaw sc 975 supra can not be made applicable to the present case.
a division bench of the high court dismissed an intra court appeal preferred thereagainst.
a tenant having regard to the provisions of the transfer of property act or otherwise having an interest in the property can not be deprived therefrom without following the procedure established by law and without initiation of any proceedings for acquisition of land.
the tenant s interest being distinct and separate could not have been held to be merged with the interest of the landlord either for the purpose of allotment of a final plot or otherwise in favour of the landlord.
appellant having a right over the remaining 200 sq m of the land of original plot no 178 should be allowed to continue thereupon and final allotment made in favour of the respondent no 3 to that extent should be cancelled.
prashant g desai learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no 1on the other hand would submit.
the act was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to the making and execution of development plans and town planning schemes in the state of gujarat.
a declaration of intention to make a scheme is to be notified whereafter a draft scheme may be published.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
s 52 of the act provides for the contents of preliminary and final scheme.
67 effect of preliminary scheme.
on the day on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
a all lands required by the appropriate authority.
shall in accordance with the prescribed procedure be summarily evicted by the appropriate authority.
such notice shall also be posted at the officer of the town planning officer and of the appropriate authority and the substance of such notice shall be pasted at convenient places in the said locality.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
if he re occupies the land after eviction.
the appropriate authority shall prosecute him under s 188 of the indian penal code.
for short the bombay rules are in pari materia with the rules.
rules 26 of the rules do not contemplate service of individual notice.
any person affected by the proposal of the town planning scheme is entitled to inspect the scheme in the office where arrangements for explaining the scheme proposals are made.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
we may also take notice of the decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji.
darji1991 indlaw sc 975 supra wherein this court opined that sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules was mandatory in nature subject of course to the condition that on the crucial date viz when the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette he whether an owner or tenant or sub tenant must be in possession of the property.
in jaswantsingh mathurasingh1991 indlaw sc 972 suprait was reiterated that a tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
but he must be in possession of the property on the crucial date i e when.
the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette.
amended rules are in pari materia with rule 26 of the rules.
appellant was a tenant in respect of plot no 178 plot no 177 was not a plot contiguous thereto.
they were separated not only by a road but also by various other plots.
if he intended to claim any interest in a portion of plot no 178 either for the purpose of obtaining compensation for acquisition of a part of the land or to continue to have possession over 200 sq m of land in plot no 178it was obligatory on his part to take part in the proceedings.
whether irrespective of rule 26 of the rules which prescribes for issuance of a general public notice any special notice upon the appellant was required to be served by the state or by the authority in our opinion cannot be gone into by us in these proceedings for the first time.
validity of rule 26 of the rules had never been questioned.
we would however assume that it was obligatory on the part of the state to serve a special notice upon the appellant.
a person may waive a right either expressly or by necessary implication.
the bangalore development authority act1976 provides that every person whose name appears in the assessment list or land revenue records shall be served with notice see sureshchandra c mehta v state of karnataka and others 1994 supp 2 scc 511 1993 indlaw sc 538.
every step taken by the state does not involve application of the doctrine of eminent domain.
it accepted that the state had a right to do so.
existence of a public purpose and increase in the valuation of the property was admitted.
what would be the quantum of payment of compensation therefor is also provided in s 82 of the act.
ors v.
in maneklal chhotalal1967.
see also bhikhubhai vithlabhai patel ors v.
it was a dispute between two private parties as regards the right to obtain final allotment the principles underlying the same are not in dispute.
but we intend to emphasise that he has lost his right to enforce the same in a public law forum.
he has no enforceable claim against the state at this juncture.
he may pursue his claim only against the respondent no 4 in an appropriate proceedings wherein for certain purposes the state or the authorities may also be impleaded as a party.
b he did not file objections for re allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the act.
it has been noticed by us hereinbefore that under rule 26 of the rules applicable in the instant case as distinguished from the bombay rules wherein special notice is requiredno special notice is mandatorily required to be served.
assuming however that it was obligatory for the state to issue notice to the appellant the question is whether the principle of waiver precludes him from claiming equitable relief in this case due to his earlier conduct which allowed the entire process of acquisition and allotment to become final.
as early as 1957the concept of waiver was articulated in a case involving the late assertion of a claim regarding improper constitution of a tribunal in manak lal v dr prem chand air 1957 sc 425 1957 indlaw sc 159 in the following terms.
it is true that waiver can not always and in every case be inferred merely from the failure of the party to take the objection.
as sir johan romilly m r has observed in vyvyan v vyvyan.
1861 30 beav 65 54 e r 813817 waiver or acquiescence like election presupposes that the person to be bound is fully cognizant of his rights and that being so he neglects to enforce them or chooses one benefit instead of another either but not both of which he might claim.
and now the applicant after all these proceedings have been taken by him after doubtless much expense has been incurred on the part of the caveator and after lying by and hoping to get a judgment of the court in his favour asks the court to do that which but for some reasons known to himself he might have asked the court to do before any other step in the proceedings had been taken.
but if it appears that the statutory conditions were inserted by the legislature simply for the security or benefit of the parties to the action themselves and that no public interests are involved such conditions will not be considered as indispensable and either party may waive them without affecting the jurisdiction of the court.
applying the above principles to the present case it must be held that the benefit of notice provided under the act and rules being for the benefit of the appellant in which no public interests are involved he has waived the same.
significantly a similar conclusion was reached in the case of krishna bahadur v purna theatre 2004 8 scc 229 2004.
a right can be waived by the party for whose benefit certain requirements or conditions had been provided for by a statute subject to the condition that no public interest is involved therein.
whenever waiver is pleaded it is for the party pleading the same to show that an agreement waiving the right in consideration of some compromise came into being.
emphasis supplied see also bank of india v o p swarnakar 2003 2 scc 721 2002 indlaw sc 1562.
in ramdev food products pvt.
the answer to the said question must be rendered in the negative.
it is well settled that what can not be done directly can not be done indirectly.
a person who is entitled to rely on a stipulation existing for his benefit alone in a contract or of a statutory provision may waive it and allow the contract or transaction to proceed as though the stipulation or provision did not exist.
for the reasons aforementioned the appeal is dismissed.
no costs.
appeal dismissed.
