facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
it is also the case of the prosecution that as a result of the aforesaid stab injuries given to the deceased he expired on the same day i e on 19 04 1988.
he was informed that the deceased had died as a result of stab injuries received and therefore he was to take necessary steps.
on receipt of the aforesaid message pw 21 along with asi tabit mamlekar went to the scene of offence.
during the survey made at the place of occurrence pw 21 noticed some blood stains in the front courtyard of the house and a pipe of length of about 1 foot or slightly less lying in the courtyard having blood stains.
after reaching the police station a complaint which is marked as exhibit pw 1 a was lodged by pw 1 in which it was alleged that pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 the deceased rauji and his brother narayan were residing in one house in banastari and they used to share a common kitchen between them.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
pw 1 also alleged that on 19 04 1988 the deceased rauji returned from his duty at about 6 30 p m and thereafter went to purchase some articles.
on his return he went to take bath and after having bath he went and switched off the light of the room.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
there was a heated exchange of words between rauji and the appellant switched on the light which was again switched off by rauji the deceased.
thereupon the appellant went and removed the fuse of the said light.
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
thereafter the appellant and the two other alleged accused namely accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders gathered in the hall to assault rauji the deceased pw 1 and pw 8.
according to pw 1 in order to avoid the assault by all of them they went to bulcao balcony.
when they went there the appellant went to his mother s room and brought a knife with which he stabbed rauji.
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
pw 18 rushed to the rescue of deceased rauji.
on completion of the investigation the police submitted the charge sheet against the accused persons namely the present appellant accused No 1 accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders namely sarita and sharmila.
after completion of the arguments the trial court reserved the verdict.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of acquittal the state filed an appeal in the high court against accused nos.
1 to 3.
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos.
2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the ipc.
he further submitted that there was not only shifting of time of the alleged occurrence but also shifting of the place of occurrence from the hall to the outside verandah and courtyard to suit the convenience of the prosecution case.
a scuffle started between the nephew and the uncle in which the accused persons also received injuries and therefore the right of private defence of the appellant was available and in that view of the matter the order of conviction and sentence is liable to be set aside.
he submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the crpc the accused appellant is liable to be acquitted.
302 ipc.
counsel for the respondent has therefore taken us through the evidence of pws.
but in any case there was an electricity light post in the front of the house which was giving enough light to the house.
the said fact is proved by the evidence of pws.
2 8 18 and the complainant herself pw 1.
he stated that although the house had electricity connection but was not having the electricity supply.
he gave instructions to his subordinate and also to the people around that nobody should touch any article lying at the scene of occurrence.
he also recovered the knife at the instance of accused sharmila which he seized.
and he was medically examined.
on medical examination his injury was found to be simple.
he submitted that since the investigation in the instant case was started by the police without recording an fir such an fir is necessarily hit by the provisions of section 162 of the cr.
investigation in substance means collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence.
he is also entitled to search the place of the offence and to search other places with the object of seizing articles connected with the offence.
but the main object of investigation being to bring home the offence to the offender the essential part of the duties of an investigating officer in this connection is apart from arresting the offender to collect all material necessary for establishing the accusation against the offender.
emphasis underlined.
when he reached at the place of occurrence even the complainant party was not available there.
but at a later stage they came there.
after reaching the police station and at the request of pw 1 the fir was recorded at 3 00 a m in the morning.
therefore recording of the fir at about 3 00 a m in the morning was justified and properly explained and it can not be said that there was any delay in recording the fir.
besides the fact of his going to the place of occurrence would not amount to making an investigation.
certain basic facts are not denied or disputed.
immediately after the incident hearing cries of passengers the driver of the bus stopped the bus.
from the records it appears that the distance between the place where the accident took place and the village in question was not much.
in any event the destination of the bus was the said village and they were bound to take the bus thereat.
the conductor of the bus sent an information to the depot manager of the state road transport corporation at tuni.
the investigating officer was also informed.
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
duty of the state to protect the life of an injured as also an endeavour on the part of the responsible police officer to reach the place of occurrence in a situation of this nature is his implicit duty and responsibility.
the place of occurrence was in total darkness and even the persons belonging to the complainant side were not available therefore bringing them to the police station where there was sufficient light and recording the complaint at 3 00 a m can not in any manner cast any doubt on the veracity of the prosecution case.
in that view of the matter we do not agree with the counsel appearing for the appellant that delay in transmitting the fir to the magistrate stands proved in the present case.
1 2 8 and 18 as eye witnesses to the occurrence.
blood was found by the police on the wall of the verandah and in the courtyard.
it is also established from the evidence on record for it is clearly stated that the street light having tube light was giving sufficient light to the place of occurrence and that it was directed towards the house which was the place of occurrence.
the said eye witnesses are consistent about the principal act of the appellant in stabbing the deceased.
this court has observed as follows in the case of dinesh kumar v state of rajasthan 2008 8 scc 270 2008 indlaw sc 2034 11.
in law testimony of an injured witness is given importance.
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
he further stated that the death was caused due to hemorrhage and shock as a result of stab injury.
he further stated that injury No 1 was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
all the contentions raised by learned counsel appearing for the appellant were considered by us in the light of evidence on record.
and we find that none of the aforesaid submissions has any basis.
there is cogent and reliable evidence on record to prove and establish that the accused has committed the act of stabbing as a result of which the deceased had died.
before dwelling further into the factual matrix of the case on the basis of which the high court convicted the appellant section 302 ipc it would be useful to briefly recapitulate the law on the point.
section 299 defines culpable homicide as the act of causing death i with the intention of causing death or ii with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or iii with the knowledge that such act is likely to cause death.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
in the case of state of a p v rayavarapu punnayya 1976 4 scc 382 1976 indlaw sc 192 this court observed as follows at page 386 12.
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
the first is what may be called culpable homicide of the first degree.
this is the greatest form of culpable homicide which is defined in section 300 as murder.
the second may be termed as culpable homicide of the second degree.
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304.
b of section 299 corresponds with cls 2 and 3 of section 300.
b of section 299 does not postulate any such knowledge on the part of the offender.
instances of cases falling u cl 2 of section 300 can be where the assailant causes death by a fist blow intentionally given knowing that the victim is suffering from an enlarged liver or enlarged spleen or diseased heart and such blow is likely to cause death of that particular person as a result of the rupture of the liver or spleen or the failure of the heart as the case may be.
b of section 299 the words sufficient in the ordinary course of nature have been used.
the difference between cl.
b of section 299 and cl.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
to put it more broadly it is the degree of probability of death which determines whether a culpable homicide is of the gravest medium or the lowest degree.
b of section 299 conveys the sense of probable as distinguished from a mere possibility.
for cases to fall within clause 3 it is not necessary that the offender intended to cause death so long as the death ensues from the intentional bodily injury or injuries sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
rajwant singh v state of kerala is an apt illustration of this point.
1958 indlaw sc 82 vivian bose j speaking for the court explained the meaning and scope of cl.
first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved.
this part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferential and has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.
if he can show that he did not or if the totality of the circumstances justify such an inference then of course the intent that the section requires is not proved.
but if there is nothing beyond the injury and the fact that the appellant inflicted it the only possible inference is that he intended to inflict it.
the test laid down by virsa singh case4 for the applicability of clause thirdly is now ingrained in our legal system and has become part of the rule of law.
under clause thirdly of section 300 ipc culpable homicide is murder if both the following conditions are satisfied i e a that the act which causes death is done with the intention of causing death or is done with the intention of causing a bodily injury and b that the injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
c of section 299 and cl.
4 of section 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the act causing death.
4 of section 300 would be applicable where the knowledge of the offender as to the probability of death of a person or persons in general as distinguished from a particular person or persons being caused from his imminently dangerous act approximates to a practical certainty.
in most cases their observance will facilitate the task of the court.
but sometimes the facts are so intertwined and the second and the third stages so telescoped into each that it may not be convenient to give a separate treatment to the matters involved in the second and third stages.
2009 indlaw sc 859.
as already noted it is quite clear from the record that there was an altercation preceding the incident.
factually therefore there was only one main injury caused due to stabbing and that also was given on the back side of the deceased and therefore it can not be said that there was any intention to kill or to inflict an injury of a particular degree of seriousness.
there is therefore provocation and the incident happened at the spur of the moment.
that being the factual position we are of the considered view that the present case can not be said to be a case section but it is a case falling under section 304 part ii ipc.
accordingly we convict the appellant under section 304 part ii of ipc and sentence him to undergo imprisonment for a period of 7 years.
appeal disposed of.
