an fir was registered on 23 3 1996 on the statement of one prakashi devi.
she and her daughter in law sheela devi were sleeping in her house around 11 30 pm the appellant jumped over the front wall of her house and broke the bulbs and ran away that at that time no male member was present in the house except the children.
and i hereby direct that you be tried on the above said charge by this court.
however when confronted with her statement recorded in the fir she admitted having stated that when the appellant had come first time at around 11 30 pm and broke the outside bulbs her son woke up and went out of the house.
her daughter in law sheela devi gave evidence as pw 2 and stated that she was married to one jaibir who worked in the military services that at 11 to 11 30 pm the accused scaled the door and broke the bulbs in the verandah of her house that when she identified the accused and raised an alarm the accused ran away that again he came around 00 30 am by scaling the door and caught her hand and that when she raised an alarm and when her mother in law woke up he ran away.
both pw1 and pw2 stated that the house of the accused was at a distance of 15 16 houses from the house of prakashi devi that the accused had never come into their house earlier that their family and the accused were not on visiting terms with each other even during functions marriages or death though they were on visiting terms with others in the village.
he contended that as the charge levelled against him was not proved and as he was not required to defend himself against a charge that he assaulted and outraged the modesty of sheela devi he ought to have been acquitted.
this was negatived by the appellate court and high court holding that an accused can not take advantage of a technical defect in framing the charge.
air 1956 sc 116 1955 indlaw sc 80 this court explained the concepts of prejudice to the accused and failure of justice thus 6 before we proceed to set out our answer and examine the provisions of the code we will pause to observe that the code is a code of procedure and like all procedural laws is designed to further the ends of justice and not to frustrate them by the introduction of endless technicalities.
if he does if he is tried by a competent court if he is told and clearly understands the nature of the offence for which he is being tried if the case against him is fully and fairly explained to him and he is afforded a full and fair opportunity of defending himself then provided there is substantial compliance with the outward forms of the law mere mistakes in procedure mere inconsequential errors and omissions in the trial are regarded as venal by the code and the trial is not vitiated unless the accused can show substantial prejudice.
disregard of a provision of that nature is fatal to the trial and at once invalidates the conviction.
this court then examined the question as to when a procedure adopted could be said to have worked actual injustice to the accused and held except where there is something so vital as to cut at the root of jurisdiction or so abhorrent to what one might term natural justice the matter resolves itself to a question of prejudice.
other violations will not be so obvious and it may be possible to show that having regard to all that occurred no prejudice was occasioned or that there was no reasonable probability of prejudice.
in still another class of case the matter may be so near the border line that very slight evidence of a reasonable possibility of prejudice would swing the balance in favour of the accused.
courts have to administer justice and justice includes the punishment of guilt just as much as the protection of innocence.
neither can be done if the shadow is mistaken for the substance and the goal is lost in a labyrinth of unsubstantial technicalities.
broad vision is required a nice balancing of the rights of the state and the protection of society in general against protection from harassment to the individual and the risks of unjust conviction.
every reasonable presumption must be made in favour of an accused person he must be given the benefit of every reasonable doubt.
the same broad principles of justice and fair play must be brought to bear when determining a matter of prejudice as in adjudging guilt.
if all these elements are there and no prejudice is shown the conviction must stand whatever the irregularities whether traceable to the charge or to a want of one.
in adjudging the question of prejudice the fact that the absence of a charge or a substantial mistake in it is a serious lacuna will naturally operate to the benefit of the accused and if there is any reasonable and substantial doubt about whether he was or was reasonably likely to have been misled in the circumstances of any particular case he is as much entitled to the benefit of it here as elsewhere but if on a careful consideration of all the facts prejudice or a reasonable and substantial likelihood of it is not disclosed the conviction must stand also it will always be material to consider whether objection to the nature of the charge or a total want of one was taken at an early stage.
but these are matters of fact which will be special to each different case and no conclusion on these questions of fact in any one case can ever be regarded as a precedent or a guide for a conclusion of fact in another because the facts can never be alike in any two cases however alike they may seem.
2001 indlaw sc 19904this court considered the meaning of the expression failure of justice occurring in s 464 of cr.
however if the aspect is of such a nature that non explanation of it has contributed to penalizing an individual the court should say that since he was not given the opportunity to explain that aspect there was failure of justice on account of non compliance with the principle of natural justice.
6 scc 554 1998 indlaw sc 1286dalbir singh v state of up 2004 5 scc 334 2004 indlaw sc 247dumpala chandra reddy vs nimakayala bali reddy 2008.
8 scc 339 2008 indlaw sc 1064 and sanichar sahni vs state of bihar 2009 7 scc 198 2009 indlaw sc 736.
the respondent relied upon the decision of this court in state of himachal pradesh v geeta ram 2000 7 scc 452 2000 indlaw sc 408 in that case.
ipc that matter was considered u s 465 of the code and not relevant on the facts of this case.
as noticed above in this case the charge was that appellant committed trespass into the house of prakashi devi for assaulting prakashi devi and assaulted the said prakashi devi and outraged her modesty.
an accused can not be punished for committing an offence against y when he is charged with having committed the offence against x and the entire defence of the accused was with reference to charge of having committed offence against x.
illustration e u s 215 of the code as contrasted from illustration d under that section throws some light on this issue.
if sheela devi alone had been present at the house at the time of the incident and the accused had assaulted and outraged the modesty of the said sheela devi but in the charge the name of the victim had been erroneously mentioned say as sushila devi or prakashi devi though there was no person by such nameand the inquiry exclusively referred to the assault and outraging the modesty of sheela devi the court could infer that the accused was not misled and the error in the charge was immaterial.
there was a material error in the charge as it violated the requirement of sub s 1 of s 212 of the code that the charge shall contain particulars as to the person against whom the offence was committed.
in view of the specific charge the accused concentrated on showing that the charge was false.
he did not attempt to meet the case made out in the trial that the offence was against sheela devi.
the appeal is therefore allowed the conviction of the accused is set aside and the matter is remitted to the trial court with a direction for a new trial after framing a charge by substituting the words her daughter in law sheela devi for the words abovenamed prakashi deviin the second part of the charge.
appeal allowed.
