926 1960.
Daulatram Rameshwarlal a firm registered under the Indian Partnership Act referred to later in this judgment as sellers  are registered dealers under section 11 of the Bombay Sales Tax Act.
The Sales Tax Officer rejected this claim for exemption and assessed them to sales tax on a taxable turnover including these sales.
The notice of demand for the total sales tax and the purchase tax assessed was served on the sellers on September 30 1956.
The sellers thereupon moved the Bombay High Court under article 226 of the Constitu tion for the issue of appropriate writs for quashing the order of assessment and the notice of demand and for prohibiting the Sales Tax Officer from taking any steps pursuant to the order or the notice.
The learned Judge who heard the petition rejected the sellers  contention that the goods remained their property till these crossed the customs frontier and therefore held that the sellers were not entitled to the benefit of article 2861b of the Constitution.
Against this decision the sellers appealed.
The 927 learned Judges who heard the appeal held disagreeing with the Trial Judge that the goods remained the sellers  property till the goods had been brought on board the ship and so the sales were exempted from tax under article 2861b of the Constitution.
They however agreed with the Trial Judger that the sellers were liable to pay purchase tax under section 10b of the Bombay Sales Tax Act.
The only question for our decision in the appeal by the Sales Tax Officer is whether property in the goods passed on shipment or at some point of time before shipment.
The law is now well settled that if the property in the goods passes to the buyer after they have for the purpose of export to a foreign country crossed the customs frontier the sale has taken place in course of the export out of the territory of India.
If therefore in the present sales the property in the goods passed to the buyers on shipment that is after they had crossed the customs frontier the sales must be held to have taken place in the course of export and the exemption under article 2861b will come into operation.
The sellers  case is that these were sales on FOB contracts.
Though the learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Sales Tax Officer tried to convince us that these were not really FOB contract sales it appears that the averment in Paras.
