Appeal No 68 of 1964.
This appeal pursuant to a certificate granted by the Allahabad High Court under section 66A2 of the Income tax Act hereinafter referred to as the Act is directed against the judgment of the High Court in a reference under the Act answering the question referred to it in the negative.
The district of Benaras was formerly a part of Oudh territory.
By a Treaty between the East India Company Nawab Asfuddaula in or about the year 1775 the province of Benaras was ceded to the British Government.
The British Government granted a sanad of Raj to Raja Chet Singh who in turn gave the Jagir of Parganas Seyedpore and Bhittery in perpetuity to Babu Ausan Singh.
It appears that in 1796 there were some disputes between Babu Ausan Singh and the Zamindars in the district and the matter was referred by the Collector of Benaras to the Board of Revenue in Calcutta.
The quantum of this pension was calculated on the basis of 14th of the revenue of the Jagir.
By this arrangement the revenue or land collections of Jagir became payable by the Zamindars direct to the Government and by the grant of the pension Babu Hat Narain Singh and his successors no longer remained the proprietors of the Parganas or the Jagir and became entitled to merely a pension.
Secretary to Lt Government NWP.
The pension was paid regularly from year to year by the Government to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs.
The Income tax Officer in spite of the objection of the assessee held that it was a regular annual income of the assessee and did not fall within the category of agricultural income tax.
He observed that in fact this income arose from a statutory obligation of the Government to pay it and although the Government recouped this from the person with whom the land was settled land in the genealogical tree of Malikana appears in the second degree its immediate and effective source is the Government s statutory obligation to pay it and this obligation is not land within the meaning of Income tax Act vide CITv.
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 43viii of the Income tax Act.
The learned Additional Solicitor General on behalf of the appellant contends that according to the true interpretation of the letter dated July 7 1837 no right in the land revenue was granted to the assessee.
He relies on the decision of this Court in State of Uttar Pradesh vs Kunwar Sri Trivikram Narain Singh1.
That case arose out of the writ petition filed by the present respondent in the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad for a writ in the nature of mandamus calling upon the State of Uttar Pradesh to forbear from interfering with his right to regular payment of the pension allowance or Malikana payable in lieu of the hereditary estate of Harnarain Singh in respect of parganas Syudpore Bhettree and for an order for payment of the pension allowance or malikana as it fell due.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
