On June 4 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19 1965.
Apart from the relief of quashing the order of May 19 1965 the appellants sought the  issue of a writ restraining the Company Law Board and the Inspectors from giving effect to the order dated May 19 1965 and also sought some other incidental reliefs.
320 A lengthy argument was addressed before us by Mr Setalvad bearing on the question of mala fides in the course of which he referred us to certain documents.
He also wanted us to bear in mind the sequence in which certain events occurred and said that these would indicate that the former Finance Minister must have been instrumental in having an order under section 237b made by the Chairman of the Board.
Our learned brother Shelat has dealt with this aspect of the matter fully in his judgment and as we agree with him it is not necessary to say much on the point.
its discretion the High Court has re 321 fused permission to cross examine them.
Mr Setalvad said that as the appellants had made out a prima facie case of mala fides in their affidavits and as these allegations had been denied by the respondents the High Court was in error in refusing permission to the appellants to cross examine the persons who swore the affidavits on the side of the respondents.
 In view of the fact that the Central Government by virtue of the powers conferred by sections 10 E and 637 delegated its powers under section 237 to them Company Law Board we shall read section 237 as if in place of the words Central Government there are the words Company Law Board or for brevity Board .
b of section 237 requires two things 1 the opinion of the Board and 2 the existence of circumstances suggesting one or more of the matters.
i to iii.
He contends that though the opinion of the Board is subjective the existence of circumstances set out in the sub cls.
b thereof confers a discretion upon the Board to appoint an Inspector to investigate the affairs of a company.
i to iii.
What is said therein is that there are circumstances suggesting that the business of the appellants is being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors members and others and that.
