Appeal No 696 of 1966.
P Ram Reddy and A V Rangam for the appellant.
R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
The respondent purchased by a registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the name All India Trading Company.
Purushottam Raju was the sole proprietor of the business and had been assessed to sales tax in respect of his turnover for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50.
The Sales tax authorities attempted to recover the arrears of tax from the respondent as the purchaser of the business.
The respondent 6 63 denied liability to pay sales tax but his contention was over ruled by the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer.
The respondent appealed to the Commercial Tax Officer as well as to the Board of Revenue but the appeals were dismissed.
The respondent thereafter moved the Madras High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the orders of the Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.
Ganapatia Pillai J who heard the petition dismissed it.
The respondent took the matter in appeal under the Letters Patent.
Rule 21 A was framed by the State Government under the rule making power granted to it under section 191 and 2 of the Act.
Rule 21 A reads as follows  When the ownership of the business of a dealer liable to pay the tax under the Act is entirely transferred any tax payable in respect of such business and remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer shall be recoverable from the transferor or the transferee as if they were the dealers liable to pay such tax provided that the recovery from the transferee of the arrears of taxes due prior to the date of the transfer shall be only to the extent of the value of the business he obtained by transfer.
The trans feree shall also be liable to pay tax under the Act on the sales of goods effected by him with effect from the date of such transfer and shall within thirty days of the transfer apply for registration or licence as the case may be unless he already holds a certificate of registration or licence as the case may be.
 Section 19  1  and 1 9 2 c are to the following effect 19.
1 The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
2 In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may provide for c the assessment to tax under this Act of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed 664 The first question to be considered in this appeal is whether Rule 21 A is intra vires of the power of the State Government under sections 191 and 2 of the Act.
Section 31 of the Act is the charging section.
It imposes a liability to pay sales tax on every dealer for each year and the tax is to be calculated on his total turnover for that year.
Section 2b of the Act defines a dealer as a person who carries on the business of buying selling .
goods.
The word turnover is defined in section 2i of the Act to mean the aggregate amount for which goods are either bought or sold by a dealer whether for cash or for deferred payment or other valuable consideration .
It is manifest that a person who purchases a business as a dealer  can be assessed to sales tax only in respect of his turnover and under the scheme of the charging provision of the Act the purchaser of the business has nothing to do with the sales effected by the seller of the business.
The turnover in respect of such sales remains therefore the turnover of the transferor and not of the transferee.
By the amending Act of 1959 Act 1 of 1959 an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
But there is no such provision in the Act for the period with which we are concerned in the present case.
The question is whether the State Government has authority under its rule making power under section 19 of the Act to create a legal fiction by which the transferee of the business is constituted as the dealer liable to pay the tax in respect of the turnover of the transferor.
On behalf of the appellants Mr Ram Reddy suggested that the State Government has power under section 191 and 192 c of the Act to frame the impugned rule.
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.
Section 191 of the Act empowers the State Government to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Act but the section cannot be utilised to enlarge the scope of section 10 regarding recovery and payment of tax from some other person other than a dealer under the Act.
Section 192c deals with the assessment to tax of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed.
of income.
2  665 Whitney vs Commissioners of Inland Revenue that the liability to tax does not depend upon assessment.
The liability is definitely created by sections 3 and 4 of the Income tax Act which are the charging sections and the assessment order under section 23 only quantifies the liability which has already been definitely and finally created by the charging sections and the provision in regard to assessment relates only to the machinery of taxation.
It follows therefore that Rule 21 A is beyond the rule making power of the State Government either under section 191 or section 192c of the Act.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
In our opinion there is no justification for this argument.
