It consists of eight district and sessions judges two additional district and sessions judges secretary to government in law department superintendent and legal remembrancer law department deputy secretary to government in the law department member administrative tribunal and the Registrar of the Orissa High Court in all 15 in number.
Out of these the district and sessions judges and additional district and sessions judges were discharging purely judicial functions.
Obviously when the Governor promulgated the Orissa Superior Judicial Service Rules 1963 he proceeded on the basis that the power to transfer the district judges and addl.
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
The High Court was anxious that a judicial officer occupying one of the administrative posts enumerated above should not in the interest of judicial work continue in that post for an unduly long time.
The High Court insisted that ordinarily judicial officers should not hold those posts for more than three years.
The High Court was repeatedly requesting the government to send back judicial officers working in administrative posts as district judges or as addl.
In February 1965 the High Court took a policy decision to the effect that as a general rule judicial officers working in special posts whether cadre or non cadre outside their regular line should be recalled to the regular line after the completion of three years.
The above.
Every time the High Court requested the government to release the three officers mentioned above for being posted as district and sessions judges or addl.
Therein this Court held that power to transfer judges presiding over courts vested with the High Court under article 235 of the Constitution.
Shri Sarjoo Prasad learned counsel for the High Court of Orissa at the very commencement of his arguments conceded that the order of the High Court holding that those officers had no authority to hold the posts in question is unsustainable.
As seen earlier the cadre of the superior judicial service senior branch consisted of not only the posts of district and sessions judges and addl.
But we were told that in view of the decisions of this Court in State of West Bengal vs Nripendra Nath Bagchi1 and State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad2 the High Court must be held to have that right as those posts are included in the cadre of superior judicial service.
