Appeal No 1671 of 1966.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated March 31 1965 of the Madras High Court in Appeal No 276 of 1962.
AV Rangam for the respondents.
425 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
The appellant was elected as a trustee by the Sengunatha Mudaliars of Manjakollai village at a meeting held on June 27 1957.
According to the appellant the temple was rounded two hundred years ago by the members of his community and since then the management of the temple and is affairs was always vested in the community of the Sengunatha Mudaliars and no person other than the elected trustee had at any time the right of management and control of the temple.
The appellant said that the temple was declared as an exempted temple under the provisions of Madras Act 1 of 1925.
The case of the appellant was that the trusteeship of the temple was hereditary.
The respondents however took a different view and proceeded on the basis that trusteeship of the Kumaran Koil was not hereditary.
The Subordinate Judge held that the appellant was a hereditary trustee and the suit was not barred by limitation.
The respondents took the matter in appeal to the Madras High Court which by its judgment dated March 31 1965 allowed the appeal and set aside the judgment of the Subordinate Judge Nagapattinam.
Section 6 sub section.
The question to be considered in this appeal is whether the appellant is a hereditary trustee Within the meaning of the section.
The definition includes three types of cases 1 succession to the office of trusteeship devolving by hereditary right 2 succession 426 to such office being regulated by usage and 3 succession being specifically provided for by the founder on condition that the scheme of such succession is still in force.
It is not the case of the appellant that the trustees of the temple of the Kumaran Koil are hereditary trustees because their office  devolves by hereditary right or because succession to that office is specifically provided for by the founder.
It was said that according to the usage of the temple the trustees were elected for a period of one year each at a meeting of the members of the Sangunatha Mudaliar Community and so the appellant must be held to be a trustee within the meaning of section 69 of Act 19 of 1951.
This is so whether the trustee has a beneficial interest of some sort or not see Ganesh Chunder Dhur vs Lal Behary2 and Bhabatarini vs Ashalata3.
In Sri Mahant Paramanda Das Goswami vs Radhakrishna Das1 the Madras High Court took the view that where succession to the mahantship is by nomination by the holder in office it was not a hereditary succession.
