iminal Appeal No 48 of 1954.
February 28.
It was part of his duties to disburse the wages to the workmen employed in the works and the procedure usually followed was that be drew the amount required from the treasury and paid the same to the emplo yees against their signatures or thumb impressions in the monthly acquittance roll.
Against this judgment there was an appeal by the State to the High Court of Pepsu which held that proof that the thumb impression in the acquittance roll was that of the appellant was sufficient when taken along with other circumstances to establish his guilt and accordingly convicted him both under section 465 and section 409 of the Indian Penal Code.
In support of  the appeal it is argued by Mr Jai Gopal Sethi that the conviction of the appellant is illegal as sanction had not been obtained under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for his prosecution that the evidence on record is insufficient to establish an offence either under section 465 or section 409 of the Indian Penal Code and that there having been an acquittal of the appellant by the trial Magistrate the materials on record did not justify a reversal of that verdict by the appellate Court.
The facts bearing on this question are that there was an application by the Department for sanction to prosecute the appellant for an offence under section 409 and that the Chief Secretary Home Department sent the communication Exhibft PX stating that he had been directed to convey sanction of the Government to his prosecution.
But after the disposal of the appeal by the High Court it was discovered that in fact there was no order of the Government sanctioning the prosecution and that the Chief Secretary had committed a mistake in sendidg the communication Exhibit PX.
1305 The position therefore is that the prosecution which has resulted in the conviction of the appellant was initiated without any sanction under section 1971 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and if sanction under that section is necessary as contended for by Mr Sethi then the entire proceedings including the conviction must be quashed.
The question has latterly been the subject of consideration by the highest Courts in this country and by the Privy Council and the position may now be taken to be fairly well settled.
The result of the authorities may thus be summed up It is not every offence committed by a public servant that requires sanction for prosecution under section 1971 of the Code of Criminal Procedure nor even every act done by him while he is actually engaged in the performance of his official duties but if the act complained of is directly concerned with his official duties so that if questioned it could be claimed to have been done by virtue of the office then sanction would be necessary and that would be so irrespective of whether it was in fact a proper discharge of his duties because that would really be a matter of defence on the merits which would have to be in vestigated at the trial and could not arise at the stage of the grant of sanction which mut precede the institution of the prosecution.
3 2 1955 1 SOR 216.
