N Criminal Appeals Nos.
39 40 of 1976.
From the Judgment and Order dated 1 12 1975 of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Criminal Original Nos.
243 The appellants wrote a letter on 20 February 1975 to the President with copies to the Prime Minister Chief Justice of India the Chief Minister of Haryana and the Chief Jus tice of Punjab and Haryana High Court.
The letter was signed by 15 members of the Bar belonging to the District Bar Association Bhiwani.
In that letter they further stated as follows The learned Judge met the members of the Bar on 15 February 1975 in the Bar Room Bhiwani.
During the course of the meeting the learned Judge criticised the Government s policy in regard to its attitude towards the judiciary.
He suggested the members of the Bar to revolt against the present Government as it has suppressed the civil liberation sic of the individuals and has also failed miserably in all fields.
The Judge further said that the prevailing system of Government is not good in this country and we must adopt the communist form of Govern ment which can save the nation.
He also accepted the hospitality of the Technological Institute of Textiles Mills people who also took him for a sight seeing from Dadri to Pilani.
Five members of the Bar Association at Charkhi Dadri sent a letter addressed to the President.
with copies to the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court the Chief Minister of Haryana the Chief Justice of India and the Prime Minister.
Then Shri Virender Kumar Single a member of the Bar requested the honourable Judge to help the Bar either by supplying books or by allocating the grant by the High Court so that the needy Bar may be able to purchase necessary books for the library.
The learned Judge also met Smt.
He also expressed his desire to see Comrade Dharam Singh a member of the Marxist Communist Party at his residence before Smt.
The Registrar told them that the closed cover could reach the Hon ble Chief Justice A notice was issued by the High Court on 12 March 1975 as follows Letter dated 20th February 1975 a copy of an application dated 20 February 1975 signed by 15 members of the District Bar Association Bhiwani has been placed for the consideration of this Bench.
