These appeals by special leave involve the question of the legality of the demand for Property tax made by respondent 1 on the appellant Companies.
Respondent 1 is the Special Area Development Authority Korba District Bilaspur MP respondent 2 is its Chairman and respondent 3 is the State of Madhya Pradesh.
Respondent 1 the Special Area Development Authority for the Korba Special Area is constituted under section 65 of the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam 23 of 1973 referred to hereinafter as the Act of 1973 .
That Act was passed by the Madhya Pradesh Legislature in order to make provision for planning and development and use of land to make better provision for the preparation of development plans and zoning plans with a view to ensuring that town planning schemes are made in a proper manner and their execution is made effective to constitute Town 7 and Country Planning Authority for proper implementation of town and country development plan to provide for the development and administration of special areas through Special Area Development Authority to make provision for the compulsory acquisition of land required for the purpose of the development plans and for purposes connected with the matters aforesaid.
Chapter VIII of the Act consisting of sections 64 to 71 is entitled Special Areas.
Section 64 empowers the State Government to declare any area as a special area by issuing a notification.
Section 55 provides that for every Special Area there shall be a Special Area Development Authority consisting of a Chairman and such other members as the Government may determine from time to time.
Section 68 which prescribes the functions of the Development Authority lays down by clauses v and vi that the Development Authority shall make provision for the municipal services and municipal management of the Special Area.
Section 69 by clauses c and d confers upon the Development Authority powers for the purpose of municipal administration and for the purpose of taxation.
The Ordinance was replaced by the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Sanshodhan Adhiniyam 1976 6 of 1976.
Since there was no Municipal Corporation or Municipal Council in the Korba Special Area prior to the constitution of the Development Authority the Government was required under sub clause b above to direct whether the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961 shall apply to the Korba Special Area for the purposes of clauses v and vi of section 68 and clauses c and d of section 69.
Such a direction was first issued by Notification dated January 28 1976 published in the Government Gazette dated February 27 1976 by which the Development Authority Korba was directed to exercise the powers and perform the functions of a Class I Municipality constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Municipality Act 1961.
By another Notification dated March 15 1977 published in Government Gazette dated July 15 1977 the Development Authority Korba was directed under the aforesaid clauses of sections 68 and 69 to exercise the powers and perform the functions under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956.
The corresponding provision in the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 is section 132 1a.
It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
In 1964 the Madhya Pradesh State Legislature had enacted the Madhya Pradesh Nagariya Sthawar Sampatti Kar Adhiniyam which was made applicable to the whole State including the urban areas.
By section 36 of the aforesaid Adhiniyam local authorities were prohibited from recovering the property tax from November 24 1970.
To compensate the municipal councils and the municipal corporations for the loss arising from the abolition of the octroi tax the Government decided to confer powers on these bodies for levying property tax.
For conferring powers to levy tax on the entry of goods in place of octroi tax the Madhya Pradesh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar Adhyadesh 1976 6 of 1976 was promulgated.
 Similar provisions were inserted in sections 135 and 136 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
11 The appellant Company disputed its liability to pay the aforesaid amounts on the grounds principally that no tax was leviable on its property since the Company was owned wholly by the Government of India and that respondent 1 was estopped from levying the property tax by reason of the agreement of 1976.
