From the.
The appeal under section 291 of the hereinafter called the Act is directed against the judgment and order of the High Court of Allahabad dated 6th of January 1971.
On that day the assessee had addressed a letter to the Company stating that he had decided to gift away for love and affection various sums to the following persons 125 Ved Prakash Gupta .
It appears further that copies of this letter were sent to one Om Prakash Gupta and Ved Prakash Gupta.
There was no dispute that instructions of the assessee were car ried out by the Company and relevant debit and credit en tries were made in the respective accounts.
On the same day ie on ist January 1957 Om Parkash Gupta wrote to the assessee his father thanking him for the gift of Rs25000 made in his favour and the gift of Rs50000 in favour of his son Pravin.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee his father for the gift of Rs25000 made to him and Rs50000 gifted to his son.
It must be mentioned however that the company ie Messrs Tika Ram and Sons.
contractors and brick kiln owners.
But it appears that it was admitted position that Tika Ram  Sons had a cash balance of Rs4000 only on 111957 and it did not have any overdraft facilities with any bank.
It was his contention that Tika Ram  Sons carried on the business of banking and hence the gifts were valid.
But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
The main question therefore that falls for consid eration is whether gifts in question made by transfer en tries in the books of debtor company were valid gifts even though the debtor company was not carrying on business of banking and had no cash in hand for the amount in question on that date.
Gift is defined in section 122 of the as transfer of certain existing mova ble or immovable property made voluntarily and without consideration by 126 one person called the donor to another called the donee and accepted by or on behalf of the donee.
Section 123 of the said Act deals with how transfers are effected and stipulates inter alia that for the purpose of making a gift of movable property as in this case the transfer must be effected either by a registered instrument signed by the donor and attested or by delivery.
The next contention was regarding the inclusion of net wealth a sum of Rs6756012 standing to the credit of the assessee in the books of Ms Pearls  Beads.
The assessee claimed to have gifted the said amounts by transfer entries in the books of Ms Pearls  Beads on 30th March 1957.
The High Court in view of the decision of the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in the case of Gopal Raj Swarup vs Commissioner of Wealth tax Lucknow answered the first question in the negative and so far as the second question is concerned it declined to answer as it did not arise in view of the answer given to the first question and the questions Nos.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
The assessee must also have sufficient credit balance to enable him to make the gift.
