Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
Ram Jethmalani and Miss Rani Jethmalani for the Petitioner.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATH MISRA J.
The petitioner of this application under Article 32 of the Constitution is an engineer who was employed in the Central Public Works Department under the Ministry of Works and Housing in Government of India and was compulsorily retired by order dated 381976 with effect from 5111976 made under Rule 56j of the Fundamental Rules.
He has assailed that order for retirement and has claimed payment of remuneration which he would have been entitled to draw upto the normal date of superannuation.
The short facts are these.
The petitioner was born on 1021922 and secured his first appointment as a Section Officer under the named employer on 22101947.
He was pro moted as officiating Assistant Engineer in class II service with effect from  255.
1954 and came to be confirmed as Section Officer by an order dated 8101955.
On 371961 he was further promoted as officiating Executive Engineer in Class I service but on 491965 he was reverted to the post of Assistant Engineer in officiating position and was con tinuing in that post when he was compulsorily retired.
The vires of Rule 56j of the Fundamental Rules as also the power to compulsorily retire a public servant have been upheld by this Court and do not require to be re examined.
 The impugned notice ran thus No 3245266 EC.
Sd VR .
 It is clear from it that the petitioner attained the age of 50 years on 1021972 and therefore on the date of the order he had completed the age of 54 years.
Admittedly he was holding a class II post when the impugned order was served on him.
In the instant case the petitioner was promoted as officiating Assistant Engineer which is a Class II post on 255.
1954 and contin ued to hold that post when the order of compulsory retire ment was passed.
As already indicated above he had crossed the age of 50 years but had not attained the age of 55 years by the date of the impugned order.
It has been argued before us that as the petitioner was holding an officiating appointment in Class 117 he could not have been compulsorily retired under sub clause i.
The sole question that fell therein for decision before this Court was whether a Government servant officiating in Class I or Class II service or post could be retired compulsorily by exercising the power under Rule 56ji after he has attained the age of 50 years.
The two Judge Bench which decided the case held  An officiating hand has no right to the post and is perhaps a fleeting.
bird who may have to go back to the substantive post from which he has been promoted on an officiating basis what is more to the point a person who has been appointed de novo may begin his service on an officiating basis or on a tempo rary basis and it is obvious that he has no right to the post and cannot be strictly said to be in that service or post as a member of that service.
Such payment be made within two months from today.
