ivil Appeal Nos.
From the Judgment and Order dated 4785  21684 of the Customs Excise and Gold Control Appellate Tribunal New Delhi in Appeal Nos.
These appeals under Section 35Lb of the Central Excises  Salt Act 1944 hereinafter called the 979 Act  are against the order Nos.
The appellant had filed its price lists in respect of the same.
Replies were duly filed to the said show cause notices by the appellant contending inter alia that as the drums were supplied by the buyer value thereof could not be included in the assessable value.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer there fore the value had to be included in the assessable value.
Collector.
It was contended by Shri Salve appearing on behalf of the appellant that on a correct analysis of section 44d the duty being on the activity of manufacture whatever is necessary to bring the goods into existence alone can be taken into account for duty purposes.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd  981 Shri Salve has however contended that so far as this Court is concerned this question is concluded by the deci sion of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd Learned Attorney General however contended that this decision did not deal with the present controversy.
Reference was made to the decision of this Court in K Radha Krishaiah vs Inspector of Central Excise Gooty  Ors Shri Salve referred to and relied on the decision of tile High Court of Bombay in the case of Govind Pay Oxygen Ltd vs Asstt.
Collector of Central Excise Panaji  Ors as also the decision of the Karnataka High Court in Alembic Glass Industries Ltd vs Union of India  Ors Learned Attorney General urged before us that the question whether for determining the assessable value of the excisable goods sold by the assessee in drums or containers provided by its customers the asses see itself provided such drumscontainers on payment of price in Civil Appeals Nos.
It was submitted that while deter mining the scope and nature of levy as contemplated under section 3 of the Act of central excise and the measure of such levy as provided in section 4 of the Act the principles laid down in Union of India vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd supra should be followed and reliance was placed on the several decisions of this Court which we will refer to later.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
According to the learned Attorney General the fact that 90 of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10 represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
