The second lease deed Ext.
They claimed there fore that they were entitled to relief under the Madras 550 City Tenants  Protection Act and that the Rent Controller Court had no jurisdiction to fix a fair rent.
So far as item 2 was concerned it appears that at the time of the hearing it was conceded before the Rent Controller that the respondents were tenants of the entire properties covered by the lease deed and that they had not constructed any of the premises thereupon.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 93.
In view of this finding it was held that the Rent Controller had no jurisdiction to entertain the application for fixation of fair rent in respect of the property which was only a vacant piece of land.
In conse quence it was held the LIC could not maintain the suit for recovery of rent based on the order made by the statutory tribunal under the Rent Control Act and claim the difference between the so called fair rent and the contract rent.
The second is that though the claim in issue before us is only a money claim for arrears of rent any decision given by us based as it will have to be on the issue whether the LIC owns the superstructure or not and whether the tenants are the les sees only of vacant land or of both land and buildings will have repercussions not only on the claim in this suit which by now has accummulated to more than Rs3 lakhs but also on any other proceedings by way of ejectment or otherwise which the LIC may have in contemplation against the tenants.
So far as the first question is concerned we have no doubt that the Division Bench of the High Court has come to the correct conclusion.
In our view the conclusion of the learned Single Judge that the lease exhibit P 1 executed by the co owners of the property in favour of one of them was invalid was erroneous.
The Rent Controller and on appeal the Court of Small Causes were therefore called upon to give their decision on this question which was completely within their statutory jurisdiction and this decision certainly constitutes res judicata between the parties see also Explanation VIII to section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
The appellant landlord had filed an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act without giving notice under section 111h of the which in those days was considered to be a condition precedent even to the filing of an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act and ob tained an order of eviction.
That being so if the Rent Controller did not decide that question properly the matter would have to be raised in appeal to the Court of Small Causes and would give this Court no jurisdiction to entertain a suit by the defeated party for such a suit would be barred by section 124 of the Act.
413 556 a writ petition was filed to challenge the validity of an order passed by the Rent Controller on the ground that the circumstances for the invocation of section 13b of the Bombay Rent Hotel Rates and Lodging House Rates Control Act 1944 had not been fulfilled.
Sri Krishnamoorthy Iyer also contended that even if it may be an arguable question as to whether the decision in the earlier petitions constitutes res judicata or not and it may plausibly be argued that it does not constitute res judicata the question for our consideration really is whether the order passed in the 557 earlier eviction petition can be treated as a nullity being passed by a court totally without jurisdiction.
vs Smt.
