modifying on appeal the judgment and decree passed by mr justice bose on the original side of that court.
one dwarka nath ghose was the owner of considerable moveable and immoveable properties.
on the 10th june 1891 he made and published his last will and testament whereby he dedicated to this family idol.
shree shree iswar sridhar jew his two immoveable properties to wit.
premises.
no 41 and no 401.
grey street in the city of calcutta.
he appointed his two sons rajendra and jogendra executors of ms will and provided that his second wife golap sundari and the two sons rajendra and jogendra should perform the seva of the deity and on their death their heirs and successors would be entitled to perform the seva.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
on the 19th july 1899 rajendra made and published his last will and testament whereby he confirmed the dedication made by dwarka nath with regard to premises nos.
41 and 401 grey street and appointed his brother jogendra the sole executor thereof.
he died on the 31st january1900 and jogendra obtained on the 24th april 1900.
probate of his said will.
probate of the will of dwarka nath was also obtained by jogendra on the 31st august 1909.
on the 4th september 1909 bhupendra jnanendra.
and nagendra then a minor the three sons of rajendra filed a suit being suit no 969 of 1909on.
the original side of the high court at calcutta against jogendra golap sundari and padma dassi the widow of sidheswar another son of rajendra for the construction of the wills of dwarka nath and rajendra for partition and other reliefs.
the idol was not made a party to this suit.
the said suit was compromised and on the 24th november 1910 a consent decree was passed whereby jogendra and golap sundari gave up their rights to the sevayatship and bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra became the sevaits of the idol a portion of the premises.
41 grey street was allotted to the branch of rajendra and the remaining portion was allotted to jogendra absolutely and in consideration of a sum of rs 6500 to be paid to the plaintiffs jogendra was declared entitled absolutely to the premises.
grey street.
the portions allotted to jogendra were subsequently numbered 402 a grey street and the portion of the premises.
41 grey street allotted to the branch of rajendra was subsequently numbered 41 a grey street.
jogendra died on the 5th august 1911 leaving a will whereby he appointed his widow sushilabala the executrix thereof.
she obtained probate of the will on the 6th august 1912.
disputes arose between bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra the sons of rajendra and one kedar nath ghosh was appointed arbitrator to settle those disputes.
the arbitrator made his award dated the 12th october 1920 whereby he allotted premises No 41 a grey street exclusively to nagendra as his share of the family properties.
nagendra thereafter executed several mortgages of the said premises.
the first mortgage was created by him in favour of snehalata dutt on the 19th may 1926.
snehalata dutt filed in the year 1929 a suit being suit No 1042 of 1929 against nagendra the trustees under the said deed of settlement and the puisne mortgagees for realisation of the mortgage security.
a consent decree was passed in the said suit on the 9th september 1929.
hari pada.
dutt and durga charan dutt for a sum of rs 19000.
a petition made by the purchasers on the 12th january 1937 for setting aside the sale was rejected by the court on the 15th march 1937.
haripada dutt died on the 3rd june 1941 leaving him surviving his three sons pashupati nath dutt shambhunath dutt and kashinath dutt the appellants before us.
haricharan dutt conveyed ms one third share in the premises to them on the 4th march1944 and durga charan dutt conveyed his one third share to them on the 3rd may 1946.
they thus became entitled to the whole of the premises which had been purchased at the auction sale held on the 9th december 1936.
on the 19th july 1948 the family idol of dwarka nath sree sree iswar sridhar jew by its next friend debabrata ghosh the son of nagendra filed the suit out of which the present appeal arises against the appellants as also against susilabala and the two sons of jogendra by her amongst others for a declaration that the premises nos.
41 a and 402 a grey street were its absolute properties and for possession thereof for a declaration that the consent decree dated the 24th november 1910 in suit No 969 of 1909 and the award dated the 12th october 1920 and the dealings made by the heirs of jogendra.
andor rajendra relating to the said premises or any of them purporting to affect its rights in the said premises were invalid and inoperative in law and not binding on it for an account of the dealings with the said premises for a scheme of management of the debutter properties and for its worship for discovery receiver injunction and costs.
written statements were filed by the appellants and by susilabala and the two sons of jogendra denying the claims of the idol and contending inter alia that there was no valid or absolute dedication of the suit properties i to the idol and that the said premises had been respectively acquired by them by adverse possession and that the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
the said suit was heard by mr justice bose who declared the premises.
the idol was declared entitled to possession of the said premises with mesne profits for three years prior to the institution of the suit till delivery of possession but was ordered to pay as a condition for recovery of possession of the said premises a sum of rs 19000 to the appellants with interest thereon at the rate of 6 per cent.
the learned judge however dismissed the suit of the idol in regard to the premises.
No 402 a grey street as in his opinion sushilabala as executrix to her husband s estate and her two sons had acquired title to the said premises by adverse possession and the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
the appellants filed on the 18th august 1950 an appeal against this judgment being appeal No 118 of 1950.
the idol filed on the 20th november 1950 cross objections against the decree for rs 19000 and interest thereon as also the dismissal of the suit in regard to the premises.
in regard however to the cross objection relating to premises.
the high court rejected the said application stating that there was no rule allowing cross objections in the supreme court.
the said cross objections were however printed as additional record.
by an order made by this court on the 24th may 1953 the petition of the idol for filing cross objections in this court was allowed to be treated as a petition for special leave to appeal against that part of the decree which was against it subject to any question as to limitation.
the appeal as also the petition for special leave to appeal mentioned above came on for hearing and final disposal before us.
the appeal was argued but so far as the petition for special leave to appeal was concerned the parties came to an agreement whereby the idol asked for leave to withdraw the petition on certain terms recorded between the parties.
the petition for special leave was therefore allowed to be withdrawn and no objection now survives in regard to the decree passed by the trial court dismissing the idol s claim to the premises No 402 a.
the appeal is concerned only with the premises.
it was contended on behalf of the appellants that the dedication of the premises.
41 grey street made by dwarka nath under the terms of his will was a partial dedication and that his sons rajendra and jogendra and his widow golap sundari who were appointed sevayats of the idol were competent to deal with premises.
it was further contended that nagendra by virtue of the award dated the 12th october 1920 claimed to be absolutely entitled to the premises.
the first contention of the appellants is clearly untenable on the very language of the will of dwarka nath.
3 of the said will provided with a view to provide a permanent habitation for the said deity i do by means of this will dedicate the aforesaid immovable property the said house.
the 3 12 cattahs three and half cattahs of rent free land more or less that i have on that very.
t is quite true that a dedication may be either absolute or partial.
the said premises are expressly declared as dedicated to the deity.
