the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.
initially the writ petitions were filed before the high court but after constitution of the tamil nadu taxation special tribunal hereinafter referred to as the tribunal the writ petitions were transferred to the tribunal which held that on application of the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation the withdrawal of benefit was not sustainable in law.
the state questioned correctness of the judgment before the high court which as noted above held the g o ms and the govt.
the judgment forms subject matter of challenge in these appeals.
in support of the appeals the primary stands raised by the appellants are.
the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation were applicable to the facts of the case.
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.
in any event before withdrawal of the benefits no opportunity of hearing was granted.
the high court erroneously came to hold that the state government had not filed any counter.
the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.
the appellants were taken by surprise by production of materials which were not even disclosed to the appellants.
the contents of the files which were produced before the high court and on which reliance was placed to hold against the appellants are not known to the appellants.
in other words there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.
in response learned counsel for the respondent state submitted that the appellants have failed to adduce any evidence or material to show that were in any way induced by any governmental action to set up industries.
in fact the government of tamil nadu vide g o ms.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
there was no scope for any mis understanding that it applied to any private sector participation in the sphere of sugar manufacturing.
on 22 1 1986.
the appellants only made representation to government subsequently claiming exemption at par with the cooperative and public sector mills.
so far as legitimate expectation aspect is concerned it is too well known that the benefit extended can be withdrawn and with this knowledge if the units are set up the principle of legitimate expectation does not apply.
the high court recorded the following findings on the factual aspects.
the respondents have established their units prior to the government orders granting the subsidy and they have no vested right to claim exemption.
no inducement was made in the government orders to establish the units.
the respondents have not acted on the basis of the government orders for establishing the units.
the grant of subsidy is a concession and the government has got good reasons for modifying the scheme in public interest.
no prejudice is caused to the respondents since the scheme was interested to make the units viable and the modified scheme provides for safeguards to that extent.
the order granting subsidy can be withdrawn in public interest.
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
the stand taken by the present appellants before the tribunal and the high court was rejected.
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.
therein the court ruled that the principle stated in high trees s case supra is that where one party has by his words or conduct made to the other a promise or assurance which was intended to affect the legal relations between them and to be acted on accordingly then once the other party has taken him at his word and acted on it the party who gave the promise or assurance can not afterwards be allowed to revert to the previous legal relationship as if no such promise or assurance had been made by him but he must accept their legal relations subject to the qualification which he himself has so introduced even though it is not supported in point of law by any consideration but only by his word.
but that principle does not create any cause of action which did not exist before so that where a promise is made which is not supported by any consideration the promise can not bring an action on the basis of that promise.
doctrine of promissory estoppel has been envolved by the courts on the principles of equity to avoid injustice.
so far as this court is concerned it invoked the doctrine in indo afghan agencies s case 1967 indlaw sc 411 supra in which is was inter alia laid down that even though the case would not fall within the terms of section 115 of the indian evidence act 1872 in short the evidence act which enacts the rule of estoppel it would still be open to a party who had acted on a representation made by the government to claim that the government should be bound to carry out the promise made by it even though the promise was not recorded in the form of a formal contract as required by article 299 of the constitution.
that purpose is to avoid or prevent a detriment to the party asserting the estoppel by compelling the opposite party to adhere to the assumption upon which the former acted or abstained from acting.
this means that the real detriment or harm from which the law seeks to give protection is that which would flow from the change of position if the assumptions were deserted that led to it.
the principle set out above was reiterated by lord denning in high trees s case supra.
it is nether in the realm of contract nor in the realm of estoppel.
it was held that the doctrine of promissory estoppel represents a principle evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
the doctrine of legitimate expectation has an important place in the developing law of judicial review.
it is however not necessary to explore the doctrine in this case it is enough merely to note that a legitimate expectation can provide a sufficient interest to enable one who can not point to the existence of a substantive right to obtain the leave of the court to apply for judicial review.
it is generally agreed that legitimate expectation gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation to be confined mostly to right to a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken.
while the discretion to change the policy in exercise of the executive power when not trammelled by any statute or rule is wide enough what is imperative and implicit in terms of article 14 is that a change in policy must be made fairly and should not give impression that it was so done arbitrarily or by any ulterior criteria.
the wide sweep of article 14 and the requirement of every state action qualifying for its validity on this touchstone irrespective of the field of activity of the state is an accepted tenet.
actions are amenable in the panorama of judicial review only to the extent that the state must act validity for discernible reasons not whimsically for any ulterior purpose.
on the contrary curial views of policy have been subjected to stringent criticism.
the point to note is that the thing is not unreasonable in the legal sense merely because the court thinks it to be unwise.
in hindustan development corporation s case1993 indlaw sc 1085 supra it was observed that decision taken by the authority must be found to be arbitrary unreasonable and not taken in public interest where the doctrine of legitimate expectation can be applied.
air 1964.
