act 1992 for short the act in misc.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
the family of the appellants consists of four brothers their wives children and their widowed mother.
the said nine flats it is said were merged and redesigned for joint living of the entire family.
the appellants herein and the said.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
proceedings before the special court.
before the learned special court the parties herein filed several applications which can be sub divided in three categories as would be noticed shortly hereinafter.
it is not in dispute that the learned special court on or about 3 august 1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1 april 1990 and 8 june 1992 i e the date of the notification.
three firms of chartered accountants were appointed to prepare statement of accounts and liabilities of each of the appellants herein.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
the appellants herein filed several misc.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
applications nos.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
it was directed in case all adult members of the family of late shri harshad metha who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats file an undertaking in this court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the court.
the custodian shall permit the members of family of late shri harshad mehta to occupy the flats during the time that the process of the sale of the flats goes on.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
mr mahesh jethmalani learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in assailing the said judgment of the learned special court inter alia raised the following contentions i some of the entities having their asset base much more than actual liability the impugned judgments are unsustainable.
although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the indian companies act the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable but the same can not be applied in case of individuals.
the liabilities of harshad mehta who was a sui generis could have been recovered from the properties held and possessed by him or from the companies floated by him but not from the individual entities at least two of whom being medical practitioners have their income from other sources.
the books of accounts and other documents on the basis whereof the auditor s report had been made having not been allowed to be inspected by the appellants herein on the plea that they had the knowledge thereabout the same could not have been taken into consideration for the purpose of passing of the impugned order or otherwise.
v the appellants having preferred appeals against the income tax orders of assessment passed by the authority and the same having been set aside no liability to pay income tax by the appellants as of now being existing the residential properties could not have been sold.
a copy of the auditor s report having only been supplied during pendency of these appeals the learned special judge committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment relying on or on the basis thereof.
respondents.
iiithe order of assessment under the income tax act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and thus mere filing of appeals were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
ivthe appellants herein apart from the corporate entity which is a front company of late harshad mehta have received large loans advances and credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees they can not escape their liabilities under the act.
the affidavit filed by the appellants herein before the special court clearly shows that the liabilities exceed the assets in all cases.
v the assets and liabilities of each of the entities having been audited by the chartered accountants it is evident from the reports that in all cases liabilities exceed the assets.
vithe decretal amount against the harshad mehta group also would exceed rs 4339 crores and thus the assets held by the appellants are wholly insufficient to meet the liabilities.
viifurthermore the appellants are also unable to maintain their residential properties as the custodian had to pay a sum of rs 1 06 crores towards the maintenance of the said residential properties.
viiidr.
ixthe sale of commercial property had never been seriously contested by the appellants and in fact the contention of the appellants herein before the special court was that if the commercial properties were sold there would be no need to sell the residential properties.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
the said irregularities and malpractices led to the diversion of funds from banks and financial institutions to the individual accounts of certain brokers.
provisions.
therefore all the properties belonging to them stand attached.
issues.
conclusion.
