it is also the case of the prosecution that as a result of the aforesaid stab injuries given to the deceased he expired on the same day i e on 19 04 1988.
he was informed that the deceased had died as a result of stab injuries received and therefore he was to take necessary steps.
on enquiring from her pw 21 learnt that her name was yeshoda who was later on arrayed as accused No 3.
two juvenile girls named sarita and sharmila who are the sisters of the appellant were found in the house.
not finding the appellant and accused no 2 in the house dy.
it was further alleged by pw 1 that two or three days before the ganesh festival deceased rauji had informed narayan that he would install statue of lord ganesh in the house and accordingly he had purchased the same.
religious ceremony was performed by installing the statue of lord ganesh in the house and.
while the said religious ceremony was being performed accused No 2 started uttering insults while standing in the kitchen.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
there was a heated exchange of words between rauji and the appellant switched on the light which was again switched off by rauji the deceased.
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
there was already an oil lamp burning which was attached to the ceiling by a brass chain.
thereafter the appellant and the two other alleged accused namely accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders gathered in the hall to assault rauji the deceased pw 1 and pw 8.
according to pw 1 in order to avoid the assault by all of them they went to bulcao balcony.
it was also alleged that after the deceased rauji fell down on the ground accused No 3 kicked him.
at that time the appellant who was holding the knife in his hand handed over the same to accused No 3 by which she assaulted pw 8 but pw 8 caught the knife in her hand which caused injury to her right palm.
thereafter according to pw 1 accused No 3 handed back the knife to the appellant and accused No 2 brought the oil lamp which was hung in the room and hit the oil lamp on the head of rauji the deceased.
in the meanwhile residents of the locality had gathered in the courtyard and told the accused persons not to assault rauji.
it was also alleged that the other juvenile offender sharmila brought a cement block shaped like an elephant trunk which she handed over to accused No 3 with which accused No 3 started assaulting rauji.
the accused then started assaulting her and pw 8 with slaps.
on the basis of complaint made by pw 1 an fir was registered and the accused came to be arrested.
the trial court framed charges against all the accused persons for the offence under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of the ipc.
the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
since there were two juvenile offenders there cases were segregated and the trial against accused nos 1 2 and 3 was conducted during the course of which a number of eye witnesses were examined on behalf of the prosecution.
the trial court passed an order on 04 08 1998 acquitting all the accused persons from the offences under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of ipc.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of acquittal the state filed an appeal in the high court against accused nos.
1 to 3.
the high court by impugned judgment convicted appellant.
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos.
2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the ipc.
the appellant herein being aggrieved by the aforesaid order of conviction and sentence filed the present appeal on which we have heard the learned counsel appearing for the appellant and also the learned counsel appearing for the state.
he submitted that although the incident in question had taken place at about 8 45 p m the same came to be reported to the police at 3 00 a m he also submitted that the police officer pw 21 who received the information about the incident started investigation without recording either any general diary for short g d entry or the fir and therefore the fir which has been proved in the trial court is hit by the provisions of section 162 of the criminal procedure code for short the crpc.
he also submitted that the high court has not given any reason for setting aside the appeal against acquittal which was passed after appreciating the entire evidence on record.
he further submitted that there was not only shifting of time of the alleged occurrence but also shifting of the place of occurrence from the hall to the outside verandah and courtyard to suit the convenience of the prosecution case.
it was further submitted that the alleged eye witnesses of the occurrence were examined by the police belatedly and that the medical evidence adduced in the case does not in any manner support the ocular evidence and if at all it would not be a case of culpable homicide amounting to murder but a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
he also submitted that if two views are possible and if there are lacunae in the case of the prosecution the benefit must go to the accused.
he next submitted that there was no evidence on record as to when the fir reached the magistrate and that none of the courts below considered the said aspect.
he submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the crpc the accused appellant is liable to be acquitted.
ms a subhashini learned counsel appearing for the respondent state however strenuously submitted that none of the aforesaid submissions could be accepted by this court as it is a foolproof case of conviction of the appellant section.
302 ipc.
it was submitted by her that the trial court examined the evidence in the present case in a very summary and cryptic manner and thereby arrived at a wrong conclusion that the accused persons were required to be acquitted.
she has drawn our attention to the findings recorded by the high court while setting aside the order of acquittal observing that the evidence of eye witnesses namely pws.
section.
if no harassment to the accused results from the action of a police officer how can it be said to defeat the purpose underlying section 5 a looking at the matter this way i hold that what mathur did was something very much short of investigation and therefore the provisions of section 5 a were not violated.
