brief facts a the appellant accused was working as a head clerk in the traffic cadre section in the office of the senior divisional personnel officer south central railway vijayawada during the period from april1992 to november1997 the nature of duties of the appellant accused included dealing with and processing of the matters like promotions transfers seniority list roster list pay fixation on promotions retirements resignations etc of the personnel.
one k rama rao the complainant who was examined as pw 1was posted as yard points man grade a under station superintendent south central railway tanuku from december1995 to june1997 in june1997due to excess staff at tanuku.
he was instructed to report at head quarters vijayawada and accordingly when he reported there he was asked to go back to tanuku.
thereafter he went back to tanuku from where he was subsequently transferred to rajahmundry.
thereafter pw 1 made a representation to his senior officer requesting him for posting at vijayawada cheerala vetapalam or tenali.
as the appellant accused was dealing with the transfers the complainant pw 1 met him on 05 11 1997 at his office to pursue about the issuance of the said transfer order.
the appellant accused asked him to come on 10 11 1997 when he met him on 10 11 1997the appellant asked him to come on the next day as he was busy in pay fixation work.
on 11 11 1997again he went to the office of the appellant but he could not find him on his seat.
again a day after i e on.
13 11 1997when he met the appellant accused he informed him that his request for transfer has been processed and the order is ready and the same has been placed before the a p o for signature and asked him to come on the next day i e on 14 11 1997and demanded rs 200 for releasing the said office order.
on the same daypw 1 reported the matter in writing to the inspector of police central bureau of investigation in short the cbivijayawada.
on 14 11 1997a trap was laid by the cbi officials along with panchas and when the accused demanded and accepted a sum of rs 200 as illegal gratification he was caught red handed along with the money which was recovered from the right hand side pocket of his pant.
on 15 11 1997at 7 30 a m.
an fir was registered by the inspector cbi visakhapatnam branch in crime No.
rc 20a97 vsp after recording the statements of the witnesses inspector of police cbi visakhapatnam filed charge sheet being no 298 ytr dated 29 04 1998 against the appellant accused for an offence punishable under sections 7131dii read with s 132 of the prevention of corruption act1988 hereinafter referred to as the act in the court of special judge for cbi cases at visakhapatnam.
the special judge cbi by order dated 19 03 2001convicted the appellant and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u s 7 of the act and one year rigorous imprisonment with a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u ss 131d ii.
g against the said order the appellant accused filed criminal appeal no 436 of 2001 before the high court of andhra pradesh.
the high court by impugned judgment dated 03 10 2007 dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant accused and confirmed the conviction passed by the trial court.
hence the appellant accused has preferred this appeal by way of special leave petition before this court.
heard mr atm rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant and mr harish chandra learned senior counsel for the respondent.
notice only on quantum of sentence hearing on all aspects.
permissibility.
on 28 01 2008this court consisting of three honourable judges issued notice in this matter confining to the quantum of sentence only.
in pursuance of the same we permitted mr rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant to address his arguments confining to quantum of sentence imposed on the appellant accused.
as stated in the narration of facts the appellant was convicted u s 7 of the act for which he was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 in default simple imprisonment for one month.
he was also convicted for the offence under s 131dii read with s 132 of the act and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year and fine of rs 500 in default simple imprisonment for one month.
the trial court ordered that both the sentences of imprisonment shall run concurrently.
the said conviction and sentence was affirmed by the high court.
in the reported case the appeal was against the concurrent finding of both the courts convicting the appellant u s 302 ipc and sentencing him to suffer imprisonment for life.
at the slp stage this court by order dated 27 07 2009issued notice confined only to the question as to whether the petitioner was guilty of commission of an offence under any of the parts of s 304 indian penal code1860 in short ipc and not u s 302 ipc similar request was made before the bench that the appellant was entitled to urge all the questions including his right to urge that he should have been acquitted in the facts and circumstances of the case.
this court referred to the supreme court rules1966 which have been framed u art 145 of the constitution and also considered scope of its power u art 142 as well as order 47.
in short the code while deciding the said question the bench has also considered the scope of s 100 of the code for entertaining the second appeal.
it further shows that the court considered the plea of the appellant therein for acquittal despite the fact that the notice was limited in terms of the order dated 27 07 2009 it is relevant to point out that the bench in para 18clarified the position and reopened the case in its entirety even though notice was issued confining to a particular aspect.
after permitting the appellant therein to argue the case for acquittal on merits it observed we however make it clear that this can not be a universal practice in all cases.
the question whether the court will enlarge the scope of its inquiry at the time of final hearing depends on the facts and circumstances of the case.
emphasis supplied.
it is clear that the bench itself has clarified that they are not laying down the law that in spite of issuing notice confining to a particular aspect in the case on hand quantum of sentence the parties are entitled to urge all points and re open the case as if they are free to do the same without any restriction.
as a matter of fact the last sentence in para 18 makes it clear that in the facts and circumstances of that case they permitted the appellants to urge all points on merits.
in the case on hand it is to be noted that on appreciation of oral and documentary evidence led in by the prosecution and the defence and on appreciation of entire materials the court of first instance i e the trial court convicted the appellant and sentenced him as mentioned above.
the high court as an appellate court once again analysed all the material discussed the oral and documentary evidence and finding that the prosecution had proved the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt concurred with the conclusion arrived at by the trial court and dismissed the appeal of the appellant.
he fairly admitted that out of the maximum period of one year the appellant had served only 52 days in prison.
with this factual position let us consider whether the request of the learned senior counsel for the appellant is to be accepted and sentence be reduced to the period already undergone.
it is not in dispute that the provisions of the prevention of corruption act1988 alone are applicable since the incident occurred on 14 11 1997 i e subsequent to the act.
s 7 of the act relates to public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act.
if the said offence charge is proved the court has no other option but to impose sentence of imprisonment which shall be not less than six months but which may extend to five years and also liable to fine.
while holding office as a public servant obtains for any person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public interest or e if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has at any time during the period of his office been in possession for which the public servant can not satisfactorily account of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
explanation.
for the purposes of this section known sources of income means income received from any lawful source and such receipt has been intimated in accordance with the provisions of any law rules or orders for the time being applicable to public servant.
it is true that even in the cited decision the appellant accused demanded only rs 250 and it was paid and accepted.
the appellant therein was convicted for offence u s 72 of the act and appeal before the high court was also dismissed.
this court after holding that the conclusion of the trial court and high court does not suffer from any infirmity considered the alternative submission which related to harshness of sentence.
in that case taking note of the fact that the occurrence took place nearly seven years back and also of the fact that the appellant had suffered custody for more than six months considering all these aspects while maintaining the conviction this court reduced the sentence to the period already undergone.
pc the minimum sentence being six months and of the fact that he had suffered custody for more than six months the course adopted by this court is perfectly in order and the same can not be applied to the case on hand wherein the appellant had undergone only 52 days when the minimum sentence was six months u s 7 and one year u s 13.
no facet of public activity has been left unaffected by the stink of corruption.
emphasis supplied.
