Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
If the Court or Controller holds that the person is such a thika tenant.
If the matter was in appeal the appellate court had to exercise jurisdiction under this sub section determine whether the tenant was a thika tenant and send the matter to the controller if it was found that the tenant was entitled to the benefit of the Act .
Sub section 2 of section 1 provided that the Act was to come into force immediately on the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 ceasing to operate provided that the provisions of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended by this Act were subject to the provisions of section 9 to apply and be deemed to have always applied to all suits appeals and proceedings a before any court or b before the Controller or c before a person deciding an appeal under section 27 of the said Act on the date of the commencement of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 ie 21st October 1952.
According to Craies on Statute Law Sixth Edition at p 391 If it is a necessary implication from the language employed that the legislature intended a particular section to have a retrospective operation the courts will give it such an operation.
According to Halsbury s Laws of England third edition Vol 36 page 413 article 627 Unless it is clearly and unambiguously intended to do so a statute should not be construed so as to interfere with or prejudice established private rights under contracts or the title to property or so as to deprive a man of his property without his having an opportunity of being heard.
The provisions of the Act of 1949 as finally amended by the Act of 1953 have to be examined to show how far they disturb the rights of landlord to recover possession of the property from a person who would be a thika tenant on 28th February 1949.
The legislature clearly meant section 4 to be prospective because according to its language the landlord who wishes to eject the thika tenant 1 2 39 Times Law Reporter 31 181 must give at least one month s notice in writing or three months  notice as the case may be.
Before the Act had come into force the landlord could not possibly know that his suit would be liable to be defeated unless he applied to the controller because there was no such authority functioning then.
Section 28 was meant to give relief to a thika tenant in a case where a decree or order for recovery of possession of any holding from a thika tenant had been made before the date of commencement of the Act.
The controller in his turn had to deal with the matter in accordance with the provisions of the Act of 1949 as if it had been in operation on the date of the institution of the suit or proceeding which might be before the commencement of the Act but he was to deal with all pre Act suits on the basis that no notice under section 4 was necessary.
If the legislature did not want to impose the bar of section 4 to pre Act suits in 1949 it does not stand to reason that the legislature should seek to impose it in the year 1953 to be operative in all suits pending not on February 28 1949 but on 21st October 1952.
The effect of omission of section 28 has been considered by this Court in Mahadeolal Kanodia vs Administrator General of West Bengal1 where it was held that a thika tenant against whom proceedings for execution of the decree for eviction were pending and who had applied for relief under section 28 lost the protection of that section as a result of the Amending Act of 1953.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
Whereas before the enactment of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 it was not necessary for the landlord either to allege any of the grounds specified in section 3 or to prove the existence thereof at the hearing of the suit he had to establish the existence of such a ground when the suit was heard.
He was not right in his view that the grounds specified in section 3 could not be called in aid.
For reasons we cannot speculate upon the legislature limited the applicability of the Act only to suits and appeals pending on 21st October 1952 and not in February 1949 ie the date of the commencement of the Act of 1949.
Bhargava J I agree with the judgment of my brother Mitter J with the exception that I would like to reserve my opinion on the question whether section 4 of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended up to 1953 is prospective or not.
