 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
2  293 offences as there can of course be no trial of offences in the abstract and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature for a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
In my opinion the true position is as follows  As a general rule if the Act is fair and good the public authority who has to administer it will be protected.
It is designed to prevent any person or class of persons for being singled out as a special subject for discriminatory and hostile legislation.
It is against this decision that these two appeals have been taken to this court by the State of West Bengal.
His first line of argument is that quite apart from the question of classification there has been no infringement of article 14 of the Constitution in the present case.
It was held by the Supreme Court that the equal protection clause was not violated by this provision.
That a judicial discretion has to be exercised on the basis of the facts of each case in the matter of granting the application for a struck jury does not really involve discrimination.
It is not stated that it is only when speedier trial is necessary that the discretion should be exercised.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
A careful perusal of this decision will make it quite clear that the Court upheld the validity of the statute impugned in that case not on the ground that the inequality was of minor importance but on the ground that the classification of establishments according to the number of workmen employed therein was based on an intelli gible distinction having a rational relation to the subject matter of the legislation in question.
That the Act has prescribed a procedure of trial which is materially different from that laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot be disputed.
Section 5 1 of the Act runs as follows  A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as the State Government may by general or special order in writing direct.
I have already stated that this part of the sub section contemplates a process of classification of of fences classes of offences and classes of cases.
 In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
Even if this difference in the circum stances of the two alleged offenders can be made the basis of a classification there is no nexus between this differ ence and the object of the Act for in the absence of any special circumstances there is no apparent reason why the offence of theft in a dwelling house by a stranger should require a speedier trial any more than the offence of theft by a servant should do.
It is urged by the learned AttorneyGeneral that this selection of cases must also be made in the light of the object of the Act as expressed in its preamble that is to say the State government can only select those cases which in their view require speedier trial.
Preliminary inquiry before committal to the sessions trial by jury or with the aid of assessors the right of a de novo trial on transfer of a case from one Court to another have been taken away from the accused who are to be tried by a Special Court even graver is section 13 which provides that a person may be convicted of an offence disclosed by the evidence as having been committed by him even though he was not charged with it and it happens to be a more serious offence.
If a law deals equally with members of a welldefined class it is not obnoxious and it is not open to the charge of denial of equal protection on the ground that it has no application to other persons.
Discrimination may not appear in the statute itself but may be evident in the administration of the law.
One is that there was no discrimination at all in the exercise of the power.
 Bose J We are concerned here with article 14 of the Constitution and in particular with the words equality before the law and equal protection of the law.
It is not enough that justice should be done.
