one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
by this will he gave the following directions after my lifetime you the aforesaid ranganayaki amminal my wife shall till your lifetime enjoy the aforesaid entire properties the outstandings due to me the debts payable by me and the chit amounts payable by me.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
on 21st february 1928 she settled the maintenance claim of lakshmi ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of rs 3350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of rs 240 per annum.
on the 24th july 1945 the widow describing herself as an absolute owner of the properties of her husband sold one of the items of the property to the 2nd defendant for rs 500.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband 's estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow 's estate and whether the daughter 's interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
the subordinate judge held that the widow took under the will a limited life interest and not an absolute estate or even a widow 's estate under hindu law and that the daughter got there under a vested interest in the properties to which the plaintiff succeeded on her death.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
the substantial question to decide in the appeal is whether the estate granted by the testator to his widow was a fall woman 's estate under hindu law or merely a limited life estate in the english sense of that expression.
it was not contested before us that a hindu can by will create a life estate or successive life estates or any other estate for a limited term provided the donee or the persons taking under it are capable of taking under a deed or will.
the decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator 's intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life estate or an estate analogous to that of a hindu widow.
at one time it was a moot point whether a hindu widow 's estate could be created by will it being an estate created by law but it is now settled that a hindu can confer by means of a will oil his widow the same estate which she would get by inheritance.
the court 's primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
considering the will in the light of these principles it seems to us that lakshminarayan iyer intended by his will to direct that his entire properties should be enjoyed by his widow during her lifetime but her interest in these properties should come to an end on her death that all these properties in their entirety should thereafter be enjoyed as absolute owners by his daughter and her heirs with powers of alienation gift exchange and sale from generation to generation.
in express terms he conferred on his daughter powers of alienation byway of gift exchange sale but in sharp contrast to this on his widow he conferred no such powers.
though no restraint in express terms was put on her powers of alienation in case of necessity even that limited power was not given to her in express terms.
if the testator had before his mind 's eye his daughter and her heirs as the ultimate beneficiaries of his bounty that intention could only be achieved by giving to the widow a limited estate because by conferring a full hindu widow 's estate on her the daughter will only have a mere spes successions under the hindu law which may or may not mature and under the will her interest would only be a contingent one in what was left indisposed of by the widow.
just as the widow was directed to enjoy tile entire properties mentioned in the schedule during her lifetime in like manner the daughter and her heirs were also directed to enjoy the same properties with absolute rights from generation to generation.
they could not enjoy the same properties in the manner directed if the widow had a full hindu widow 's estate and had the power for any purpose to dispose of them and did so.
it was argued that such a power was implicit within the acts she was authorized to do that is to say when she was directed to pay the debts and settle the maintenance of ramalakshmi it was implicit within these directions that for these purposes if necessity arose she could alienate the properties.
indeed we find that within four years of the death of the testator the widow was able to pay a lump sum of rs 3350 in cash to the daughter in law without alienating any part of the immovable properties and presumably by this time she had discharged all the debts.
in this situation the inference that the testator must have of necessity intended to confer on the widow power of alienation for those limited purposes can not be raised.
in our opinion even if that suggestion is accepted that for the limited purposes mentioned in the will the widow could alienate this power would fall far short of the powers that a hindu widow enjoys under hindu law.
it can not be said that a hindu widow can only alienate her husband 's estate for payment of debts to meet maintenance charges and for her own maintenance.
we therefore hold that the estate conferred on ranganayaki ammal was more like the limited estate in the english sense of the term than like a full hindu widow 's estate in spite of the directions above mentioned.
according to jarman jarman on wills the law leans in favour of vesting of estates and the property disposed of belongs to the object of the gift when the will takes effect and we think the daughter got under this will a vested interest in the testator 's properties on his death.
it was strenuously argued by mr k section krishnaswami iyengar that lakshminarayana iyer was a brahmin gentleman presumably versed in the sastras living in a village in the southernmost part of the madras state that his idea of a restricted estate was more likely to be one analogous to a hindu woman 's estate than a life estate a understood in english law wherein the estate is measured by use and not by duration and that if this will was construed in the light of the notions of lakshminarayana iyer it should be held that the widow got under it a hindu widow 's estate and the daughter got under it a contingent remainder in the nature of spes and on her death there was nothing which could devolve on the plaintiff and he thus had no locus standi to question the alienations made by the widow.
