the high court was therefore not justified in holding that this court 's earlier order only waived the limitation for filing a letters patent appeal.
an appeal shall lie from a judgment or order passed by the one judge of the high court in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution of india to a division bench comprising of two judges of the same high court.
this court in hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque and ors air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 held that the high court while issuing writ of certiorari u art 226 of the constitution can only annul a decision of a tribunal whereas u art 227 of the constitution it can issue further directions as well.
in umaji keshao meshram v radhikabai air 1986 sc 1272 1986 indlaw sc 651.
prior to the commencement of the constitution the chartered high courts as also the judicial committee had held that the power to issue prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts was an exercise of original jurisdiction see mahomedalli allabux v ismailji abdulali air 1926.
the judicial committee held in their lordships opinion any original civil jurisdiction possessed by the high court and not in express terms conferred by the letters patent or later enactments falls within the description of ordinary original civil jurisdiction.
by art 226 the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts prior to the commencement of the constitution has been made wider and more extensive and conferred upon every high court.
it is because a single judge has no power under rules 14 and 17 to hear and dispose of a petition u art 226 or 227 that the non obstante clause has been introduced in rule 18 the use of the words be heard and finally disposed of by a single judge in rule 18 merely clarifies the position that in such cases the power of the single judge is not confined merely to issuing a rule nisi.
as we have seen above an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 226 is not barred while cl 15 itself bars an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 227.
for determining the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment of the single judge the division bench has to find out whether in substance the judgment has been passed by the learned single judge in exercise of the jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution.
in the event in passing his judgment on an application which had mentioned in its cause title both arts 226 and 227the single judge has in fact invoked only his supervisory powers under article 227the appeal under cl 15 would not lie.
the cl 15 of the letters patent expressly bars appeals against orders of single judges passed under revisional or supervisory powers.
even when the learned single judge 's order has been passed under both the articles for deciding the maintainability against such an order what would be relevant is the principal or main relief granted by the judgment passed by learned single judge and not the ancillary directions given by him.
thus in each case the division bench may consider the substance of the judgment under appeal to ascertain whether the single judge has mainly or principally exercised in the matter his jurisdiction.
when without mentioning the particular article the learned single judge decided on merits the application in order to decide the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment the division bench might examine the relief granted by the learned single judge for maintainability of an appeal the determination would be the main and not the ancillary relief.
when a combined application u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution is summarily dismissed without reasons the appeal court may consider whether the facts alleged warranted filing of the application u art 226 or u art 227 of the constitution.
