Appeals Nos 45 and 46 of 1959.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated March 25 1957 of the former Bombay High Court in Appeal No 16 of 1957.
Q K Daphtary Solicitor General of India H J Umrigar and D Gupta for the Apellant In C A No 45 of 59 and Respondent In C Appeal No 46 of 59.
H N Sanyal Additional Solicitor General of India section N Andley and J B Dadachanji for the respondents in C A No 45 of 59 and Appellants In C A No 4659.
926 1960.
September 27.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
Against this decision the sellers appealed.
Civil Appeal No 46 of 1959 has been preferred by the sellers against the appellate court s judgment in so far as it upheld the assessment of purchase tax under section 10b.
In certain circumstances eg if the seller takes the bill of  lading to his own order and parts with it to a third person the property in the goods it has been held does not pass to the buyer even on shipment.
The correctness of the proposition that in the absence of special agreement the property in the goods does not pass in the case of a FOB contract until the goods are actually put on board is not disputed before us.
The question whether there was such a different agreement has to be decided on a consideration of all the surrounding circumstances.
That was laid down in Brandt s case 1 and though in a later case in Hardy vs Pound 2 the Court of Appeal in England held that the judgment in Brandt s case 1 does not cover every FOB contract and that in the special facts of the particular case before them it was for the sellers to obtain the licence and this view was approved by the House of Lords  it is in our opinion correct to state that the presumption in FOB contracts is that it is the duty of the buyers to obtain export licence though in the circumstances of a particular case this duty may fall on the sellers.
We see however no justification for thinking that in this clause the time of the export  means the time 1 2 930 when the goods cross the customs frontier.
It is therefore contended that  a person  in section 8b should be interpreted to include a registered dealer or anybody else.
