Appeal No 513 of 1963.
section V Gupte Additional Solicitor General C L Dudhia K T Sule Atiqur Rahman and K L Hathi for the appel lants.
March 24 1964.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
This appeal arises out of an industrial dispute as regards the age of retirement.
The first respondent Shaw Wallace  Co was incorporated in January 1946 as a Private Limited Company to take over the business of the partnership firm of the Shaw Wallace  Co which had been doing business in India for about 60 years.
In July.
1947 the Private Limited Company was converted into a Public Limited Company.
It has Branches in Bombay Delhi and Via Madras.
The general practice of the Company both at the Head Office and the Branch Offices appears to have been to retire its employees at the age of 55 though in certain cases the Company in its discretion permitted an employee to continue beyond that age.
In September 1959 an agreement was entered into between the Company and its employees at Calcutta under which the age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
Shortly after this the Company s employees at Bombay raised a dispute regarding their retirement age.
They claimed that no workman should be retired from service before he bad completed 60 years of age.
This dispute was ultimately referred to the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra.
As has already been noticed there is no dispute that the age of compulsory retirement should not remain at 55.
The Chart which is marked exhibit U 5 mentions 50 concerns in which the age of retirement is 60.
The workmen claim that these showed clearly a tendency in the Bombay region to fix the age of retirement in comparable concerns at 60.
In an earlier decision of this Court in Dunzlop Rubber Co Ltd vs Workmen2 it had been urged that the employer was an All India concern and that changing the terms and conditions of service in regard to the age of retirement in one place might unsettle the uniformity and might have serious repercussions in other branches.
The Court then took into account the fact that the Tribunal had found that in all the awards in recent times in various concerns in Bombay region the trend had been to fix the age of retire ment at 60 years.
It was mainly in view of this finding of the Tribunal that this Court refused to disturb the award fixing the age of retirement at 60 years.
Reliance was placed for this purpose on the Chart exhibit Cl.
There is thus good ground for thinking that the reason why these concerns have kept the age of retirement at 55 or 58 are special to them and do not show any recent trend in the matter.
The main diffi culty in accepting the Company s case on this point viz the pronouncements of this Court however remained.
We ought to add in this connection that the approach adopted by the Tribunal in dealing with this aspect of the problem is not very commendable and that its present conclusion that what was said by itself on an earlier occasion and was confirmed by this Court in appeal was in fact inaccurate is on the whole unsound.
If this Court had erred in making those pronouncements we would be the first to admit such mistakes and to correct the error.
Appeal allowed.
