On that account there appears to have been some friction between the High Court and the gov ernment for some years past.
Thereafter he was posted as superintendent and legal remembrancer.
Shri PC Dey.
Soon after that decision was rendered and without any further dialogue with government in the  light of that decision the High Court took the precipitate step of transferring the aforementioned officers to other posts and in their place posted officers who were doing judicial work till then.
e Shri PK Mohanti district and sessions judge Bolangir Kalahandi as deputy secretary to the law department a post which was vacant then and f Shri PC Dey member sales tax tribunal as district and sessions judge Bolangir Kalahandi.
The government s prayer for necessary certificates for leave to appeal to this Court was rejected.
Hence in the case of Shri PC Dey it must be assumed that his services were placed by the High Court at the disposal of the government for being posted as member sales tax tribunal.
The only question that fell for decision in that case was whether the government of West Bengal was competent to institute disciplinary proceedings against an addl.
He must depend on his department for information.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues with personal information deal with the matter than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
be found.
163 be quoted for a proposition that may seem to follow logically from it.
Neither Bagchi s case nor Ranga Mahammad s case is of any assistance to us in deciding the question whether the High Court has competence to fill some of the posts in the secretariat by transfer judicial officers under Its control.
Just as the High Court resents any interference by the executive in the functioning of the judiciary the executive has a right to ask the High Court not to interfere with its functions.
It is for the executive to say whether a particular officer would meet its requirements or not.
If there is no such agreement it is open to the government to send him back to his parent department at any time it pleases.
That part of the High Court s order is clearly unsustainable.
Those officers are now functioning in the posts to which they were transferred.
RKPS Appeals allowed in part.
