The facts of the case and the argument of Counsel appear fully in the judgment.
NC Chatterjee section K Kapur with him for the respond ent in Case No 298 1952.
concurred applied the test of what may be called reasonable classification and held that although the need for a speedier trial than what is possible under the procedure prescribed 291 by the Code of Criminal Procedure might form the basis of a reasonable classification and section 5 1 could not be regarded as discriminatory in so far as it authorises the State Government to direct that certain offences or classes of offences or classes of cases should be tried by a special court the provision was discriminatory and violative of article 14 of the Constitution in so far as it purported to vest in the State Government an absolute and arbitrary power to refer to a special court for trial any cases  which must include an individual case whether the duration of such a case is likely to be long or not .
delivered separate judgments agreeing with the conclusion of the Chief Justice Das Gupta J however going further and holding that section 5 1 was unconstitutional in its entirety inasmuch as the clas sification sought to be made on the expediency of speedier trial is not a well defined classification.
 Before considering whether section 51 infringes to any and what extent the constitutional prohibition under article 14 it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
Ward vs Flood 1.
Rep405.
2  4  566 567 568.
By admitting only their relatives and friends 1  4  2  5   3 297 to apprenticeship the members of the board made it impossi ble with occasional exceptions for others to be appointed as State pilots.
This Court has never attempted that impossible task.
 These decisions seem to my mind to reveal a change of approach marked by an increasing respect for the State s regulatory power in dealing with equal protection claims and underline the futility of wordy formulation of so called tests in solving problems presented by concrete cases.
It does not either in terms or by necessary implication discriminate as between persons or classes of persons nor does it purport to deny to any one equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws.
I cannot share the view of Das Gupta J that the expediency of speedier trial is too vague and indefinite to be the basis of a well de fined classification.
All that the court is expected to see in dealing with equal protection claims is whether the law impugned is palpably discriminatory and in considering such a question great weight ought to be at tached to the fact that a majority of the elected represen tatives of the people who made the law did not think so though that is not of course conclusive.
On the other hand the facts appearing on the record would seem to justify the reference of the case to the special court for trial.
As pointed out by Chakravartti J 1  2 321 US I 305 The notification by which the case of Anwar Ali Sirkar the respondent herein was directed to be tried by the special court did not relate merely to that case but covered five more cases in each of which the accused were several in number.
In Anwar Ali s case itself there were 49 other accused.
FAZL ALl J.
3 Article 14 is as widely worded as if not more widely worded than its counterpart in the American Consti tution and is bound to lead to some inconvenient results and seriously affect some pre Constitution laws.
In the course of the arguments it was suggested that the Act is open to criticism on two different and distinct grounds these being  1 that it involves excessive delegation of legislative authority amounting to its abdication in so far as it gives unfettered discretion to the executive without laying down any standards or rules of guidance to make use of the procedure laid down by it and 2 that it infringes article 14 of the Constitution.
Some of these Articles are confined to citizens only and some can be availed of by non citizens also but on reading these provisions as a whole one can see the great importance attached to the principle of equality in the Constitution.
Democracy im plies respect for the elementary rights of man however suspect or unworthy.
To a certain extent the remedies to which an accused person is entitled for redress in the higher courts have been cut down.
In order to appreciate the points that have been can vassed before us it would be convenient first of all 320 to refer to the provision of article 14 of the Constitution with a view to determine the nature and scope of the guaran tee that is implied in it.
In a sessions case on the other hand the trial is actually before another Judge who was not connected with the earlier proceeding.
Under section a50 of the Criminal Procedure Code when a case after being heard in part goes for disposal before another Magistrate the accused has the right to demand before the second Magistrate commences the proceedings that the witnesses already examined should be re examined and re heard.
The position therefore is that when the statute is not itself discrimi natory and the charge of violation of equal protection is only against the official who is entrusted with the duty of carrying it into operation the equal protection clause could be availed of in such cases but the officer would have a good defence if he could prove bona fides.
 It has not however been urged before us that the addition of these extra words has made any substantial difference in its practical application.
In order to pass the test two conditions must be fulfilled namely 1 that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes those that are grouped together from others 1  2  335 and 2 that that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act.
The different sec tions of the Act have been analysed and the important dif ferences have been clearly indicated by the learned Chief Justice of West Bengal and need not be repeated in detail.
Section 5 1 of the Act runs as follows  A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as the State Government may by general or special order in writing direct.
The law of the Constitution is not only for those who govern or for the theorist but also for the bulk of the people for the common man for whose benefit and pride and safeguard the Constitution has also been written.
