1 To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
m To help in the Organisation of Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations in different commercial centres of the country.
This contention was negatived in these terms    that contention overlooks the fact that the advice in question is not tendered for any consideration.
it is predominantly a charitable organization and not a professional one.
 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
This contention was also rejected with the observation that since the earlier part of the definition refers to some particular business or trade carried on in a premises the words any work in connection with or incidental or necessary thereto obviously refer to such particular business or trade and not to trade or business in general .
Before dealing with the contentions canvassed before us it will be useful to notice briefly the scheme and the relevant provisions of the Act.
The title of the Act is Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 1954.
It shall apply in the first instance.
Further the definition of commercial establishment is wider than that of shop.
As regards the preliminary objection it is true that before the High Court it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
Alternatively it was contended that the case fell within part b of the definition of commercial establishment inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business generally.
We therefore overrule the preliminary objection.
therein the Memorandum of Association Articles of Association and the other material placed before the court were closely examined.
The entire case law was surveyed.
posed the question for decision thus  In our view the linch pin of the definition of industry  is to ascertain the systematic activity which the organization is discharging namely whether it partakes the nature of a business or trade or is an undertaking or manufacture or calling of employers.
The very definition of commercial establishment indicates that the activity of a registered society charitable or other trust will not take it out of the definition if the activity carried on by it amounts to a busi 11971 1 SCR 177.
We therefore do not think that R K Mittal s case supra was incorrectly decided and needs reconsideration.
