ivil Appeal Nos.
630 631 of 1971.
Appeals by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated the 19 1 1970 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Tax Revision Cases Nos 46 and 47 of 1969.
V section Desai Mrs Vimla Markandeyulu and G N Rao for the Appellant.
P Ram Reddy and P P Rao for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BEG J.
The short question before us in these appeals by special leave is whether sales of Arc carbons known as Cinema Arc Carbons manufactured by the appellant company were rightly subjected to sales tax for two assessment years 1965 66 and 1966 77 on the ground that they fall under entry No 4 of the 1st Schedule of the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act 1957 hereinafter referred to as the Act .
This entry reads as follows Cinematographic equipment including cameras projectors and sound recording and reproducing equipment 562 lenses films and parts and accesories required for use their with As indicated above the very name of the Arc Carbons as commercial commodities seems to attach the word Cinema to them because of the use to which they are generally put.
The High Court referred to the fact that the appellants had not produced their account books to show that they had been purchased by persons other than those who ran cinemas or for any other use.
Of course it is very difficult to identify a taxable commodity merely by the use to which it may be put.
Nevertheless it appears that the entry under consideration links the taxable object with its general or ordinary use.
It was pointed out that the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal the final departmental authority under the Act had allowed an application for adducing expert evidence to determine the question whether arc carbons manufactured by the appellant company could be covered by the entry under consideration.
There the High Court had held that such arc carbons are covered by the 4th entry in the 1st Schedule of the Act.
Neither the use of the term electrode to describe them suggesting a connection with electricity nor their utilisation in a process involving application of electrical power could convert them into electrical goods as contemplated by the entry in the Madras Act.
The High Court rightly observed that these decisions had no bearing whatsoever upon the very different entry in a schedule of an entirely different Act of a different State.
The additional cases cited before us were Pashabhai Patel  CoP Ltd vs Collector of Sales Tax Maharashtra State4 where it was held a tractor 1 TRC No 26 of 2962 decided on 9th August 1963 2 1968 22 STC 172 Madras 3 1968 22 STC 476 Madras 4 1964 15 STC32.
The entry No 4 occurs in a schedule in which descriptions of goods to be taxed indicate that the expression required for use there with has been employed for equipment or accessories connected with the main purpose.
For instance in entry No 5 the expression occurs at the end as follows Photographic and other cameras and enlargers films and plates paper and cloth and other parts and accessories required for use therewith.
It is its general or predominant user which seems to determine the category in which an article will fall.
The first entry in the schedule relates to motor vehicles and includes component parts of motor vehicles and articles including batteries adapted for use as parts and accessories of motor vehicles but excludes certain other articles by putting in the words not being such articles as are ordinarily also used for other purposes than as 1 1965 16 STC 860.
2 1970 26 STC 87.
3 1970 26 STC 428.
4 1971 27 STC 45.
564 part and accessories of motor vehicles.
Entry No 2 relating to refrigerators air conditioning plants covers also component parts thereof.
Again entry No 3 for wireless reception instruments and apparatus includes electrical valves accumulators amplifiers and loud speakers and spare parts and accessories thereof  .
The words parts thereof are used in several entries such as entry No 6 for clocks time pieces and watches entry No 10 for dictaphones and other similar apparatus for recording sound and entry No 11 for sound transmitting equipment such as telephones and loud speakers.
our object in indicating the nature of entries amdist which entry No 4 occurs is to show that some precision has been attempted in making the entries.
Of course even where an entry relates to parts manufactured for use for a particular kind of instrument of gadget only the article manufactured to serve as a part of a particular kind of apparatus would not cease to be covered by the intended entry simply because a purchaser makes some other use of it.
We have to find the intention of the framers of the schedule in making the entry in each case.
We find that the term accessories is used in the schedule to describe goods which may have been manufactured for use as an aid or addition.
A sense in which the word accessory is used is given in Webster s Third New International Dictionary as follows all objects or device that is not essential in itself but that adds to the beauty convenience or effectiveness of something else.
Other meanings given there are supplementary or secondary to something of greater or primary importance additional any of several mechanical devices that assist in operating or controlling the tone resources of an organ Accessories are not necessarily confined to particular machines for which they may serve as aids.
We think that the Andhra Pradesh High Court correctly held that the main use of the arc carbons under consideration was duly proved to be that of production of powerful light used in projectors in cinemas.
The fact that they can also be used for search lights signalling stage lighting or where powerful lighting for photography or other purposes may be required could not detract from the classification to which the carbon arcs belong.
This as already observed by us is evident from the fact that they are known as cinema arc carbons in the market.
