Civil Appeal No 1744 of 1968.
Therefore it was held that the writ petition was premature as the final list of officers on an integrated seniority list was still to be prepared after hearing objections.
The High Court of Mysore seems to have been under the misapprehension that the case now before us is also governed by what was held by this Court in Shankariah s case supra with reference to an entirely different and provisional list of Forest Officers.
He is a respondent who has not appeared before us and therefore could not be heard by us.
We have however gone through his petition and the affidavit filed in its support where in paragraph 16 he states as fol lows The Mysore State Civil Service Integra tion Rules 1960 provide for filing objections only against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniority List and do not provide any provision for filing objections or appeal ing against the final Inter State Seniority List as per Annexure B .
Thus we have no other legal remedies open to us for the re dressal of our grievances and the abridgement of our fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution of India and therefore we are forced to approach this Honble Court to invoke the writ jurisdiction for the redressal.
 It is apparent that the petitioner re spondent was claiming relief against the final Inter State seniority list although he was given due opportunity to object to the provi sional list.
In the case before us the petitioner admits that the Mysore State Civil Services Integration Rules provided for filing of objections against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniori ty list.
Presumably he had that opportunity.
Otherwise he would no doubt have objected that the rules had not been complied 1 SLR 1969 p1 C As.
His grievance seemed to be that he was not heard after the final list was prepared.
We are unable to appreciate.
There the list was provisional.
830 we hold that the combined final gradation list dated April 6 1962 so far as category 6 is concerned is ultra vires and illegal and that part of the notification alone must be quashed by grant of a writ in the nature of certiorari.
All that is done is that certain principles are applied in the preparation of the list.
These principles are generally found in the rules or executive directions which are known to or are capable of being found out by the persons affect ed.
When a provisional seniority fist is prepared there is a possibility of some mistakes occurring about the facts of a case or in the application of those rules.
It was an opportunity to be given before the final list was to be declared and published as a final list.
We find no such grounds in the ease before us.
GR Prabhavalkar  Ors.
The Central Government under Sec 115 of the Act has to determine the princi ples governing equation of posts and prepare a common gradation list by integration of services.
