Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
They were married about one and a half years before the occurrence.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased s mother.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
This time he also brought with him PW 8 an elderly gentleman from his village.
That evening the accused again came to the house of his mother in law.
The house consisted of only one room.
They found the deceased bleeding profusely from the left side of her chest.
Attracted by the cries raised by the PWs 1 to 3 the neighbourers P Ws 4 5 6 and others came there.
Thereafter P W 9 prepared his own report exhibit P 4 and sent it alongwith exhibit P 1 and MO 1 to the Police Station at Renigunta.
P W 14 the Sub Inspector of Police registered the First Information Report at 5 A M on 19th December 1972 and went ahead with the further investigation which was later taken over by the Inspector of Police PW 15.
They got him examined by a Doctor.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
There was no fracture.
The plea of the accused was one of denial.
On 18th December 1972.
P Ws 1 and 2 taunted him saying we are maintaining you and your wife yet you come at any time you like .
They insulted him.
P W 1 beat him with a stick two or three times.
He felt giddy and was about to lose consciousness.
He regained consciousness next morning.
The Learned Sessions Judge held that the prosecution had failed to establish any motive and that the evidence of the prosecution witnesses was discrepant conflicting and improbable  He thought that the prosecution had made an attempt to improve its case which was originally based on circumstantial evidence to made it appear as if PW 3 had also seen the stabbing.
He commented on the failure of the Police to seize the mat or bedding on which the deceased was sleeping.
He therefore acquitted the accused.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
He urged that the knife was not seized by the Police under any seizure Memo nor was the knife sent to any finger print expert.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
We do not think that the comment is justified.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
It stems out of the fundamental principle of our criminal jurisprudence that the accused is entitled to the benefit of any reasonable doubt.
If the preponderance of probability is all one way a bare possibility of another view will not entitle the accused to claim the benefit of any doubt.
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions5 Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
1 61 IA 389.
R 4 Salmon J in his charge to the jury in R V Fantle reported in 5 370 The law would fail to protect the community if it admitted fanciful possibilities to deflect the course of justice.
In Khem Karan  Ors.
Where the Trial Court allows itself to be beset with fanciful doubts rejects creditworthy evidence for slender reasons and takes a view of the evidence which is but barely possible it is the obvious duty of the High Court to interfere in the interest of justice lest the administration of justice be brought to ridicule.
