The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
For the purpose of holding election to the .
They prayed for a further direction to be issued to the respondents calling upon them to hold the election after preparing the electoral roll afresh in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Rules.
Aggrieved by the order passed by the High Court Ashok Kumar Mishra and Bhagwat Singh Thakur Petitioners No 1 and 5 respectively in the 494 petition before the High Court filed a petition for special leave to appeal to this Court and Purshottam Lal Sharma petitioner No 6 before the High Court filed another petition.
The period prescribed for preferring claims and objections under Rule 43 was 30 days.
It is not the case of the petitioners that they did not know immediately after the publication of such notice that in the said notice a period of 20 days had been mentioned in its preamble as the period within which the claims and objections could be preferred and in paragraph 7 thereof it had been stated that any such claim or objection filed beyond the prescribed period was liable to be rejected.
It was open to them to move the State Government under Rule 6 of the Rules to make an order directing the Collector to follow .
The final electoral roll was published on November 16 1978.
After November 25 1978 a large number of nominations were received by the Returning officer.
By that time the nominations had all been received.
The final list of candidates for the election with their symbols was published on December 20 1978.
The writ petition itself was filed on December 28 198 when the poll had to take place on December 31 1978.
No satisfactory explanation was given in the course of the petition by the petitioners as to why they delayed the filing of the petition till December 28 1978 even though they knew that there was an error in the notice issued under Rule 41 of the Rules in the month of October 1978 more than two months before the date on which i was filed.
The other documents produced alongwith the writ petition referred to omissions of certain names from the electoral roll.
They do not show that any 497 of the petitioners had raised any objection with regard to the date within which the claims and objections could be preferred to the electoral roll mentioned in the notice.
We have therefore to proceed on the basis that it was only on December S 1978 for the first time that the attention of the Collector was drawn to the said error and that the writ petition itself was presented on December 28 1978.
No satisfactory reason for the delay was set out in the petition.
It is well settled that the power of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution to issue an appropriate writ is discretionary and if the High Court finds that there is not satisfactory explanation far the inordinate delay it may reject the petition if it finds that the issue of Writ will lead to public inconvenience and interference with rights of others.
The question whether in a given case the delay involved is such that it dissentients a person to relief under Article 226 is a matter within the discretion of the High Court which as in all matters of discretion has to exercise it judiciously and reasonably having regard to the surrounding circumstances.
We therefore find it unnecessary to deal with the other points urged before us.
