A K Sen and G L Sanghi Vineet Kumar and Devinder Gupta for the Appellant.
J Sorabjee K K Venugopal and R P Bhatt for respondent in 2611 A81.
The Judgment and order of the Division Bench of the High Court presided over by learned Acting Chief Justice is set aside and one by learned Single Judge Dr A section Anand is restored and consequently the Writ Petition No 436 of 1980 filed by Respondents in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir stands dismissed.
Thereafter under a deed dated July 15 1969 the aforesaid three persons entered into a partnership along with 11 others under the name and style Metro Theatres for carrying on the business of constructing and running a modern air conditioned Cinema in the site covered by the permission granted by the Government.
By a subsequent agreement executed by the 14 partners on February 22 1969 the name of the Cinema business was changed from Metro Theatre  to Apsara Theatre.
 The construction of the Cinema Theatre appears to have been completed by the middle of June 1969.
Annexure D is a copy of the said licence and it is expressly stated therein that the said licence has been granted to Shri Ved Gupta and that it shall remain in force until March 31 1970 provided that Shri Ved Gupta or any person to whom with the consent of the licensing authority the licence is transferred continues to own or manage the cinematographs used ill the said Apsara Theatre.
Thereupon Todar Mal preferred an appeal against the said order passed by the District Magistrate.
The Minister of State for Revenue and Law Government of Jammu and Kashmir heard counsel on both sides and ultimately dismissed Todar Mal s appeal by a detailed order of which Annexure G is a copy.
Todar Mal did not leave the matter there.
Krishan Kumar was a party respondent in the Special Leave Petition also.
On April 19 1979.
On the date of the institution itself the District Judge Jammu issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
It reads Whereas it has been brought to my notice by Shri Ved Gupta sole licensee Apsara Theatre that the District and Sessions Judge Jammu has issued a temporary injunction against the exhibition of films by him in the above said Theatre And whereas the SP City by his letter No 1Conf.
It may be mentioned at this stage that at that time the High Court was functioning with a srength of only four Judges and excluding the learned Single Judge who heard the writ petition and the two members of the Division Bench the Acting Chief Justice and Justice who comprised the Division Bench which heard the Letters Patent Appeal Kotwal J was the only other Judge available in the High Court.
3 If there is no such majority then the decision shall be in accordance with the decision of the senior Judge except in the case of an appeal from a decree where such decree shall be confirmed 586 In the opinion of the Division Bench the present case was governed by sub rule 3 of Rule 23 and consequently the decision in the case had to be in accordance with the opinion of the senior Judge.
This has resulted in the highly anomalous situation that as against the view concurrently taken by the two Judges of the High Court viz Anand J and Mir J the opinion of the Acting Chief Justice which was really the minority view has been allowed to prevail on the basis of the reasoning that the case was governed by sub rule 3 of Rule 23.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
Civil Appeal No 2611 of 1981 is directed against the judgment of the learned Acting Chief Justice which has been treated as the final judgment in the Letters Patent Appeal and Civil Appeal No 2611 A of 1981 has been preferred against the order passed by the Division Bench CMP No 454 of 1981.
In the judgment of the learned Acting Chief Justice he has opened the discussion of the merits of the case by an elaborate consideration of the question as to whether the licence in respect of the Apsara Theatre had been granted to Shri Ved Gupta in his individual capacity or as representing the partnership.
Admittedly the licence in respect of the Apsara Theatre was granted by the District Magistrate in the sole name of Ved Gupta and in all the relevant columns of the document of licence Ved Gupta has been shown as the licensee and there is no mention at all of the firm or its partners.
The Appeal preferred by Todar Mal against the order of the District Magistrate was dismissed by the concerned Minister of the State Government on April 26 1978.
The District Magistrate and the State Government whose orders were sought to be quashed were the main respondents in this writ petition.
That writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on May 9 1978 SLP Civil No 3490 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal against the High Court s order dismissing his writ petition was rejected by this Court on November 13 1978.
It is sufficient to state that these reasons do not appeal to us as correct or tenable.
Under the Rules and the terms and conditions of the licence the grantee thereof is the person answerable to the licensing authority for breach of the obligations and conditions and he is also punishable for contravention of the provisions of the Act and the Rules.
We are of the opinion that on a reading of the provisions contained in the Act and the Rules and the explicit terms of the licence itself it is impossible to sustain the view expressed in the judgment under appeal that the licence is a grant for the premises and constitutes an interest attached to the premises.
Hence it becomes obvious that the basic premise on which the learned Acting Chief Justice has founded his reasoning cannot be accepted as correct or sound.
The licensee shall not without the permission of the licensing authority assign sublet or otherwise transfer the licence or the licensed place or the cinematograph nor shall the licensee without permission as aforesaid allow any other person during the period of currency of the licence to exhibit the films in the licensed place  Clause 11 of the licence issued to Ved Gupta in Form A prescribed under the Rules incorporates in identical language the provision aforementioned contained in Rule 88v as one of the conditions subject to which the licence was granted.
The effect of the order was that Ved Gupta had no longer possession or control over the Theatre premises or the cinematograph apparatus installed therein despite the fact that the was the licensee responsible to the authorities under the statute for the due discharge of the obligations contained in the Rules and in the conditions appended to the licence.
The position would of course have been different if it was a case of even temporary suspension of the licence without notice to the licensee However as we have explained this is not a case of suspension of the licence and the complainant before the court is not the licensee.
They had no legal right whatever to conduct the cinema shows in the Theatre without a licence in contravention of the law.
