ivil Misc.
Petition No 15001 of 1989.
K Ram Kumar SA Ahmed Tanweer Abdul and Mohan Pandey for the Respondents.
Subbamma adopted one KV Seshiah.
Through the first wife he had a son born to him by name Sudarshan Gupta and through the second another son by name Anand Babu.
In February 1985 during the pendency of the special leave petition the adoptive mother died.
Sudarshan and Anand Babu led claim to the entire property of Subbamma exclusively to each of them under two different wills said to be by subbamma and each contended that the other will was a forged one.
With the death of the adoptive mother Seshiah led claim to the entire property as heir.
When the matter was listed before the Court for recording of the compromise Sudarshan Gupta second respondent herein maintained that he had not been paid Rs1 lakh as stipulated and he had no intention to accept the compromise.
The question as to recording of the compromise was taken up by the Court and parties have been heard.
The alienees have admittedly been in possession of the property from the date of the sales which is more than three years  old by now.
Admittedly the transfers are pendente lite.
Mr Ram Kumar who appeared for the second respondent apart from maintaining that his client has not received the sum of Rs1 lakh has not been able to point out any justification as to why the compromise should not be acted upon and on the basis of it the litigation may not be disposed of.
The factum of compromise is not in dispute.
Respondent No 2 and his counsel Mr Ram Kumar have accepted the fact that the parties have signed the compromise petition which contain terms which they had accepted and all parties have accepted the document of compromise to be genuine.
Counsel for the alienees has taken the stand that the said alienations are valid and the transferees have become owners of the property and has even maintained that there have been improvements of the property by the alienees.
He sought to rely on certain decisions which on being referred to were found to be totally inapplicable to the facts of the case.
108 where the power of the Court under Order 23 rule 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure in the face of an objection of one of the parties to the compromise was considered.
Relying upon several authorities of different High Courts and one of the Privy Council referred to in the decision the High 542 Court held that once the Court was satisfied that there was a compromise it was for the Court to record the same and no option lay before the Court to act otherwise.
We direct that the compromise petition shall be accepted and in terms thereof the suit shall be disposed of and the terms of the compromise shall form part of the order to be drawn up in this Court for disposing of the special leave petition.
With a view to settling all equities between the parties and with the consent of Seshiah who is present in Court and counsel for the sons and after hearing the Advocate for the alienees we make the following directions 1.
This amount shall be deposited in the Registry of this Court within the time indicated and Sudarshan Gupta shall be free to withdraw the amount.
Rs 77124 being the amount paid by the alienees before the Sub Registrar in respect of the sale deeds shall be deposited within the same period in the Trial Court and the alienees of the different sale deeds would be entitled to withdraw the amounts on the basis of the record made by the Sub Registrar on each of the sale deeds.
The alienees have no right created under the alleged sale deeds.
In view of the aforesaid direction the security furnished in the Trial Court shall stand discharged and the alienees will have no liability to account for mesne profits.
543 4.
