it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
in this group of cases we are faced with a different problem of alleged exploitation by big manufacturers of bulk drugs.
barlagan ketone a bulk drug was not treated as an essential bulk drug under the drugs prices control.
order 1970 and was not included in the schedule to that order.
the price which the manufacturer of barlagan kotone reported to the central government in 1971 was rs 24735 68 per kg.
after the 1979 drugs prices control.
order came into force the distinction between essential and non essential bulk drugs was abolished and a maximum price had to be fixed for barlagan ketone also like other bulk drugs.
the government however fixed the price at rs 1810 per kg.
for the moment ignoring the price fixed by the government we see that the price of rs 24735 per kg.
at which the manufacturer was previously selling the drug and at which he continues to market the drug to this day because of the quashing of the order fixing the price by the high court is so unconsciously high even compared with the price claimed by himself that it appears to justify the charge that some manufacturers do indulge in profiteering.
one of the principal objectives of the essential commodities act 1955 is precisely that.
the essential commodities act is a legislation towards that end.
section 31 of the essential commodities act enables the central government if it is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair price to provide for regulating or prohibiting by order the production supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.
in particular section 32c enables the central government to make an order providing for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold.
it is in pursuance of the powers granted to the central government by the essential commodities act that first the drugs prices control.
order 1970 and later the drugs prices control.
armed with authority under the drugs prices control.
order 1979 the central government issued notifications fixing the maximum prices at which various indigenously manufactured bulk drugs may be sold by the manufacturers.
since prices of formulations are primarily dependent on prices of buli drugs the notifications fixing the retail prices of formulations were also quashed.
nevertheless the high court gave detailed directions regarding the manner of disposal of the review petitions by the high court.
the union of india has preferred these appeals by special leave of this court against the judgment of the high court.
the case for the union of india was presented to us ably by shri g ramaswami the learned additional solicitor general and the manufacturers were represented equally ably by shri anil diwan.
before we turn to the terms of the drugs prices control.
we start with the observation price fixation is neither the function nor the forte of the court.
for example if the legislature has decreed the pricing policy and prescribed the factors which should guide the determination of the price we will if necessary enquire into the question whether the policy and the factors are present to the mind of the authorities specifying the price.
but our examination will stop there.
that is a different cup of tea altogether.
the second observation we wish to make is legislative action plenary or subordinate is not subject to rules of natural justice.
in such a situation while such enquiry by the subordinate legislating body as it deems fit is a condition precedent to the subordinate legislation the nature and the extent of the enquiry is in the discretion of the subordinate legislating body and the subordinate legislation is not open to question on the ground that the enquiry was not as full as it might have been.
the provision for such enquiry as it thinks fit is generally an enabling provision intended to facilitate the subordinate legislating body to obtain relevant information from all and whatever source and not intended to vest any right in any one other than the subordinate legislating body.
the third observation we wish to make is price fixation is more in the nature of a legislative activity than any other.
a legislative act is the creation and promulgation of a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases an administrative act is the making and issue of a specific direction or the application of a general rule to a particular case in accordance with the requirements of policy.
legislation is the process of formulating a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases and usually operating in future administration is the process of performing particular acts of issuing particular orders or of making decisions which apply general rules to particular cases.
it has also been said rule making is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class while an adjudication on the other hand applies to specific individuals or situations.
again adjudication determines past and present facts and declares rights and liabilities while legislation indicates the future course of action.
a price fixation measure does not concern itself with the interests of an individual manufacturer or producer.
otherwise price fixation is generally a legislative activity.
after referring to hari shanker bagla v state of madhya pradesh 1955 1 scr 380 1954 indlaw sc 135 union of india v bhanamal gulzarimal 1960 2 scr 627 1959 indlaw sc 127 sri krishna rice mills v joint director food 1965 indlaw sc 93 unreported state of rajasthan v nathmal and mithamal 1954 scr 982 1954 indlaw sc 66 narendra kumar v union of india 1960 2 scr 375 1959 indlaw sc 61 panipat co operative sugar mills v union of india 1973 1 scc 129 1972 indlaw sc 155 anakapalle co operative agricultural industrial society ltd v union of india.
2 scr 526 1971 indlaw sc 291 a constitution bench of the court observed that the dominant object and the purpose of the legislation was the equitable distribution and availability of commodities at fair price and if profit and the producer s return were to be kept in the forefront it would result in losing sight of the object and the purpose of the legislation.
in fixing the prices a price line has to be held in order to give preference or pre dominant consideration to the interest of the consumer or the general public over that of the producers in respect of essential commodities.
if price increases it becomes injurious to the consumer.
the court quoted with approval a passage from secretary of agriculture v central reig refining company 330 us 604 stating suffice it to say that since congress fixed the quotas on a historical basis it is not for this court to reweigh the relevant factors and per chance substitute its notion of expediency and fairness for that of congress.
this court is not a tribunal for relief from the crudities and inequities of complicated experimental economic legislation.
in saraswati industrial syndicate ltd v union of india 1974 2 scc 630 1974 indlaw sc 134 the court observed price fixation is more in the nature of a legislative measure even though it may be based upon objective criteria found in a report or other material.
it was also reiterated that the decision in shree meenakshi mills case was based on a special agreement between the parties and therefore had no relevance to the question before them.
in prag ice oil mills v union of india 1978 3 scc 459 1978 indlaw sc 472 a constitution bench of seven judges of this court had to consider the validity of the mustard oil price control.
order 1977 an order made in exercise of the powers conferred upon central government by the essential commodities act.
referring to shri meenakshi mills the learned cj reaffirmed the approval accorded to the statement in secretary of agriculture v central reig refining company supra that courts of law could not be converted into tribunals for relief from the crudities and inequities of complicated experimental economic legislation.
panipat sugar and anakappalle society were again referred to and it was pointed out that those cases turned on the language of section 33c of the essential commodities act.
he also reaffirmed the proposition that price fixation was in the nature of a legislative measure and could not give rise to a complaint that natural justice was not observed.
he observed we think that unless by the terms of a particular statute or order price fixation is made a quasi judicial function for specified purposes or cases it is really legislative in character in the type of control order which is now before us because it satisfies the tests of legislation.
it is meant to lay down a general rule applicable to all persons or objects or transactions of a particular kind or class.
in laxmi khandsari v state of uttar pradesh 1981 2 scc 600 1981 indlaw sc 558 it was held that the sugar cane control order 1966 was a legislative measure and therefore rules of natural justice were not attracted.
in rameshchandra kachardas porwal v state of maharashtra 1981 2 scc 722 1981 indlaw sc 423 it was observed that legislative activity did not invite natural justice and that making of a declaration that a certain place shall be a principal market yard for a market area under the relevant agricultural produce markets acts was an act legislative in character.
the former had said there is no doubt that a minister or any other body in making legislation for example by statutory instrument or by law is not subject to the rules of natural justice bates v lord hailsham of st marylebone supra  any more than is parliament itself edinburgh and dalkeith rv v wauchope per lord brougham 1842 8 cl f 700 720 british railways board v pickin 1974 1.
in sarkari sasta anaj vikreta sangh v state of madhya pradesh 1981 4 scc 471 1981 indlaw sc 607 it was pointed out that the amendment of the madhya pradesh food stuffs distribution control order was a legislative function and there was therefore no question of affording an opportunity to those who were to be affected by it.
we mentioned that the panipat and the anakapalle eases were distinguished in shree meenakshi and prag ice.
the order requiring him to sell the sugar to the government was made under section 32f of the essential commodities act under which the central government was enabled to make an order requiring any person engaged in the production of any essential commodity to sell the whole or specified part of the quantity produced by him to the government or its nominee.
it is to be noticed here that the payment to be made under section 33c is not necessarily the same as the controlled price which may be fixed under section 32c of the act.
section 32c of the act we have already seen enables the central government to make an order controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold if the central government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or in securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices.
the order made under section 32c which is not in respect of a single transaction nor directed to particular individual is clearly a legislative act while an order made under section 33c which is in respect of a particular transaction of compulsory sale from a specific individual is a non legislative act.
the most famous pre apa attempt to explain the difference between legislative and judicial functions was made by justice holmes in prentis v atlantic coast line co a judicial inquiry said he investigates declares and enforces liabilities as they stand on present or past facts and under laws supposed already to exist.
according to chief justice burger rulemaking is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class.
we may now turn our attention to the two drugs prices control order of 1970 and 1979 both of which were made by the central government in exercise of its powers under section 3 of the essential commodities act.
the drugs prices control order 1970 defined bulk drugs as follows bulk drugs means any unprecessed phamaceutical chemical biological and plant product or medicinal gas conforming to pharmacopocial or other standards accepted which is used as such or after being processed into formulations and includes an essential bulk drug.
bulk drugs were divided into essential bulk drugs which were included in the schedule and bulk drugs which were not so included.
in the case of essential bulk drugs paragraph 4 of the order enabled the central government to fix the maximum price at which such essential bulk drugs should be sold.
in the case of bulk drugs which were not included in the schedule a manufacturer was entitled to continue to market the product at the same price at which he was marketing the products at the time of the commencement of the order.
he was required to report this price to the central government within two weeks of the commencement of the order and was further prohibited from increasing the price without obtaining the approval of the central government.
one of the terms of reference was to examine the measures taken so far to reduce prices of drugs for the consumer and to recommend such further measures as may be necessary to rationalise the prices of basic drugs and formulations.
the government of india accepted the report of the hathi committee and announced in parliament the statement on drug policy pursuant to which the drugs prices control order 1970 was repealed and the drugs prices control.
order 1979 was made.
the hathi committee had recommended that a return post tax between 12 to 14 on equity that is paid up capital plus reserves may be adopted as the basis for price fixation depending on the importance and complexity of the bulk drug.
the drugs prices control order 1979 was made pursuant to this statement of policy.
prices control.
leader price means a price fixed by the government for formulations specified in category i category ii or category iii of the third schedule in accordance with the provisions of paras.
new bulk drug means a bulk drug manufactured within the country for the first time after the commencement of this order.
retention price in relation to a bulk drug means the price fixed under paras 4 and 7 for individual manufacturers or importers or distributors or such bulk drugs.
the distinction between an essential bulk drug included in the schedule and a bulk drug not so included in the schedule which was made in 1970 drugs prices control.
bulk drugs were however broadly divided into indigenously manufactured bulk drugs imported bulk drugs and hulk drugs which were both manufactured indigenously as also imported.
paragraph 3 of the 1979 order enables the government with a view to regulating the equitable distribution of any indigenously manufactured bulk drug specified in the first or the second schedule and making it available at a fair price and after making such enquiry as it deems fit to fix from time to time by notification in the official gazette the maximum price at which the bulk drug shall be sold.
cl 2 of paragraph 3 provides that while so fixing the price of a bulk drug the government may take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on net worth.
we have already noticed that net worth is defined to mean the share capital of a company plus free reserve if any.
it is then prescribed by clause 3 no person shall sell a bulk drug at a price exceeding the price notified under sub paragraph 1 plus local taxes if any payable provided that until the price of bulk drug is so notified the price of such bulk drug shall be the price which prevailed immediately before the commencement of this order and the manufacture of such bulk drug at a price exceeding the price which prevailed as aforesaid.
this means that until the maximum sale price of an indigenously manufactured bulk drug is fixed under paragraph 3 of the 1979 order the price fixed under paragraph 4 of the 1970 order or the price permitted under paragraph 5 of the 1970 order was to be maximum sale price.
paragraph 34a requires a manufacturer commencing production of the bulk drug specified in the first or second schedule the price of which has already been notified by the government not to sell the bulk drug at a price exceeding the notified price.
paragraph 34b provides that where the price of a bulk drug has not been notified by the government the manufacturer shall within 14 days of the commencement of the the production of such bulk drug make an application to the government in form i and intimate the government the price at which he intends to sell the bulk drug and the government may after making such an enquiry as it thinks fit by order fix a provisional price at which such bulk drug shall be sold.
paragraph 4 of the 1979 order provides that notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph 3 the government may if it considers necessary or expedient so to do for increasing the production of an indigenously manufactured bulk drug specified in the first or second schedule by order fix a a retention price of such bulk drug b a common sale price for such bulk drug taking into account the weighted average of the retention price fixed under clause.
retention price by its very definition pertains to individual manufacturers.
common sale price we take it is the price at which manufacturers whose retentions are fixed may sell the bulk drug despite the maximum sale price fixed under paragraph 3.
paragraph 6 enables the government to fix the maximum sale price of imported bulk drugs specified in first and second schedules.
paragraph 7 deals with the power of the government to fix retention price and pooled price for the sale of bulk drugs specified in the first and second schedules which are both indigenously manufactured and imported.
paragraph 9 empowers the government to direct manufacturers of bulk drugs to sell bulk drugs to manufacturers of formulations.
p c means packing charges worked out in accordance with such norms as may be specified by the government from time to time by notification in the official gazette in this behalf.
m u means make up referred to in para.
paragraph 15 empowers the government to revise prices of formulations.
paragraph 17 requires the government to maintain the drugs prices equalization account to which shall be credited by the manufacturer among other items the excess of the common selling price or as the case may be pooled price over his retention price.
it is provided that the amount credited to the drugs prices equalization account shall be spent for paying to the manufacturer the shortfall between his retention price and the common selling price or as the case may be the pooled price.
formulations constituting categories i ii and iii are enumerated in the third schedule.
the fourth schedule prescribes the various forms referred to in the different paragraphs of the drugs prices control order.
a note at the end of the proforma requires the exclusion from cost certain items of expenses such as bonus in excess of statutory minimum bad debts and provisions donations and charities loss gain on sale of assets brokerage and commission expenses not recognised by income tax authorities and adjustments relating to previous years.
shri g ramaswamy learned additional solicitor general on behalf of the union of india submitted that the fixation of maximum price under paragraph 3 of the drugs prices control.
it was only thereafter that notifications fixing the prices were issued.
the submission of shri anil diwan learned counsel for the respondents was that unlike other price control legislations the drugs prices control order was designed to induce better production by providing for a fair return to the manufacturer.
great emphasis was laid on the second clause of paragraph 3 of the 1979 order which provides that in fixing the price of a bulk drug the government may take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on networth.
it was submitted that the provision for an enquiry preceding the determination of the price of a bulk drug the prescription in paragraph 3 cl 2 that the average cost of production of the drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer should be taken into account and that a reasonable return on networth should be allowed and the provision for a review of the order determining the price established that price fixation under the drugs prices control.
the suggestion of the learned counsel was that the nature of the review under paragraph 27 was so apparently quasi judicial and that the need to know the reasons for the order sought to be reviewed was so real if the manufacturer was effectively to exercise his right to seek the quasijudicial remedy of review that by necessary implication it became obvious that the order fixing the maximum price must be considered to be quasijudicial and not legislative in character.
it was contended that in any case whatever be the nature of the enquiry and the order contemplated by paragraph 3 the review for which provision made by paragraph 27 was certainly of a quasijudicial character and therefore it was necessary that the manufacturers should be informed of the basis for the fixation of the price and furnished with details of the same in order that they may truly and effectively avail themselves of the remedy of review.
it was stated that the applications of the manufacturers for review of the notifications fixing the prices had not been disposed of for years though time was really of the very essence of the matter.
the prices of formulations were dependent on the prices of drugs and it was not right that prices of formulations should have been fixed even before the applications for review against the notifications fixing the price of bulk drugs were disposed of.
in the present case the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of drugs prices control.
order is to be made for the purposes of fixing the maximum price at which a bulk drug may be sold with a view to regulating its equitable distribution and making it available at a fair price.
it is primarily from the consumer public s point of view that the government is expected to make its enquiry.
the need of the consumer public is to be ascertained and making the drug available to them at a fair price is what it is all about.
in fixing the price of a bulk drug the government is expressly required by the order to take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on net worth.
the former is an enquiry leading to a legislative activity while the latter is an enquiry which ends in an administrative or quasi judicial decision.
the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of the drug prices control.
the legislative activity being a subordinate or delegated legislative activity it must necessarily comply with the statutory conditions if any no more and no less and no implications of natural justice can be read into it unless it is a statutory condition.
from the legislative nature of the activity of the government it is clear that the government is under no obligation to make any disclosure of any information received and considered by it in making the order but in order to render effective the right to seek a review given to an aggrieved person we think that the government if so requested by the aggrieved manufacturer is under an obligation to disclose any relevant information which may reasonably be disclosed pertaining to the average cost of production of the bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and the reasonable return on net worth.
that we think is the nature and scope of the review contemplated by paragraph 27 in relation to orders made under paragraphs 3 12 and 13.
we are afraid none of these cases is of any assistance to the correspondence since the court was not concerned in any of those cases with a review of subordinate legislation by the subordinate legislating body.
we do not propose to delve into the question whether there has been any such arbitrary assumption of facts and figures.
in most cases they are the sale manufacturers of the bulk drug and even if they are not the sole manufacturers they belong to the very select few who manufacture the bulk drug.
the notes is as follows notes i items of expenses to be excluded from costs a bonus in excess of statutory minimum.
b bad debts and provisions.
d loss gain on sale of assets.
g adjustments relating to previous years.
similarly where expenses have been legitimately incurred and allowed by income tax authorities there was no justification for excluding those items of expenditure from the cost.
he submitted that the price of a formulation was dependant on the price of the bulk drug and it was therefore not right to fix the price of formulation when the price of bulk drug was in question in the review application and there was a prospect of the price of the bulk drug being increased.
we consider that such orders are against the public interest and ought not to be made by a court unless the court is satisfied that no public interest is going to be served.
in the present case on ex parte interim order was made on april 20 1981 in the following terms in the meanwhile on the petitioners giving an undertakings to maintain prices both for bulk and formulation as were prevailing prior to the impugned notification we stay implementation of the impugned bulk drug prices as well as formulation prices.
no doubt the order as made on november 25 1981 has the manufacturers on terms but the consumer public has been left high and dry.
the union of india is entitled to the costs of the appeal and the writ petition in the high court.
we therefore condone the delay grant special leave in all the petitions for special leave and direct the appeals to be listed for hearing on may 1 1987.
