leave granted.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
respondent no 1 thereafter filed a suit in the delhi high court for grant of a decree of permanent injunction being suit no 2408 of 1985 alleging infringement of the said mark andor claiming right of passing off in respect thereof.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.
the plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of order 39 rule 4 of the code of civil procedure.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
indisputably appellant filed an application in form tm 24 on 17 6 1986 the assistant registrar trade marks passed an order on 10 11 1986 certifying that the trade mark field marshal brand word per se is registered under no 228867 in part a of the register as of the date 13th.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
the registration of the aforesaid trade mark has been renewed from time to time and will remain in force for a period of a seven years from 13th.
in the said c o no 9 of 1986 filed by the first respondent against m s jain industries despite service of notice nobody appeared on behalf of the defendant 16 1 1987 was the date fixed in the said suit.
appellant s counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
the learned judge directed recording of statements of the learned counsel in this behalf pursuant whereto the same were recorded which reads as under c o 9 of 1986.
statement of shri hemant singh counsel for m s thakural mechanical works without oath.
i have no objection if the petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
registrar of trade marks under section 4656 and 107 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 for rectification of entry relating to the registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 after.
trade mark no 228867 in.
this view of the matter learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
the cause of action therefor was stated to have arisen in the following circumstances that the cause of action for the present petition arose in favour of the petitioner and against the respondents in the month of january 1987 when the respondent informed this honourable court that they have been recorded as subsequent proprietors of the impugned registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 in c o no 9 of 1986whereupon the petitioner withdrew the said earlier petition c o no 9 of 1986 with permission of the court to file the present petition because of the changed circumstances.
by an order dated 19 1 1988having regard to the provisions contained in the said act the learned judge opined that appellant having become the registered proprietor of the said trade mark no case for grant of injunction has been made out the interim order of injunction passed on 19 12 1985 was vacated and the defendants were permitted to use their registered trade mark subject to the following conditions a defendants will not use the logo style of the word field marshal of which logo and style the plaintiff is the proprietor under the copyright act.
c the defendants shall maintain proper accounts of the sale of centrifugal pumps under the trade mark field marshal and shall file them in court as and when directed.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
the said order of the division bench is under challenge in this appeal.
before adverting thereto we may take notice of the relevant statutory provisions ss 461b481482 and 56 read as under section 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1 subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub s 3 of s 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application u cl a or cl b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevent date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
section 48 registered users  1 subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trademark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark but the central government may by rules made in this behalf provide that no application for registration as such shall be enertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks.
the permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the proprietor thereof and shall be deemed not to be used by a person other than the proprietor for the purposes of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.
on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved the tribunal may make such order as it may think fit for cancelling or varying the registration of a trade mark on the ground of any contravention or failure to observe a condition entered on the register in relation thereto.
the power to rectify the register conferred by this section shall include the power to remove a trade mark registered in part a of the register to part b of the register.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
the high court on the other hand opined it was not anybody s case before us that m s jain industries.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
that is m s jain industries.
the meantime as a result of the ex parte ad interim injunction granted on 19th december 1985 by this court in suit no 2408 of 1985there was no question of thukral using the trademark field marshal till the injunction was vacated on 19th january1988.
m s jain industries got itself registered and obtained periodical renewal thereof as is required under the act.
the prayer in the application was to take off the registered trade mark from the register in respect of centrifugal pumps goods so far as the registration made in favour of the appellant is concerned.
it is in the aforementioned situation we are called upon to determine the meaning of the words for the time being occurring in s 461b of the act.
sc 530 1970 indlaw sc 300 para 88 to mean by the use of the expression for the time being in cl 22 of art 366.
it confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
it provides for civil or evil consequences.
it therefore can be taken away only when the conditions laid down therefor are satisfied.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
the non user for a long time would disentitle a registered proprietor from renewal of the registration.
whether s 461b read with s 48 of the act would bring within its purview not only a registered proprietor but also the proprietor who had otherwise acquired a right would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.
the trade mark for which registration is obtained is used intermittently.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
this clause corresponds to s 46 of the existing act and provides for removal of a trade mark from the register on the ground of non use.
under s 461it is proposed to clarify that the five years period will start from the date on which the trade mark is actually entered on the register.
the board could not while exercising its jurisdiction under s 461bof the act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
two interpretations of the said provision s 461b are possible.
it does not provide for a sun set law.
if his title is not extinguished by reason of a provision of a statute for non user of the trade mark for a period of five years any assignment made shall be valid subject to such situation which we have noticed in paragraph 25 supra.
