the respondent No.
i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
the respondent No i alone was convicted of the other two offences.
the respondents preferred appeals before the high court challenging their convictions and sentences.
the state on the other hand preferred an application for revision under section 439 cr.
p c for the enhancement of the sentences passed on the respondents.
the high court allowed the two appeals acquitted the respondents and dismissed the application for revision preferred by the state.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
the original managing agency agreement in favour of aeco with respect to vesco was for a period of 15 years i e from 1933 to 1948 and was later renewed for the remaining term of the currency of the licence granted by the government under the electricity act.
a mention may be made of the fact that in june 1952 the vesco undertaking was acquired by the government under the provisions of the electricity undertaking acquisition act but nothing turns on it.
the vesco had its own board of directors while the aeco had also its own separate board of directors.
the vesco had no managing director but at each meeting of its board of directors one of the directors used to be elected chairman.
the same practice was followed at the meeting of the general body of the shareholders.
according to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of d l n raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
eventually many of those ventures failed.
according to the prosecution the second raju was not bestowing sufficient care and attention on the affairs of vesco.
the aeco as managing agents of vesco had appointed in the year 1939 one d v appala raju a trusted employee as its representative and as the secretary of vesco.
all this is not disputed.
as secretary of vesco it was his duty to convene the meetings of the board of directors to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of vesco to convene meetings of the general body to prepare the managing agents report and the director s report as also to see to the presentation of auditors report and the statement of accounts.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i wanted to take advantage of this fact and conceived of a scheme for misappropriating as much money belonging to vesco as possible before the managing agency agreement of aeco came to an end in october 1948.
after the death of r k n g raju it was discovered that the aeco was indebted to many concerns which were under its managing agency the liability being shown either as that of aeco or that of r k n g raju personally.
again the vesco was shown as indebted to the andhra cement to the extent of rs 42 000.
amounts which had been misappropriated used to be posted therein though in fact no orders were placed for any material.
at that time it used to be represented to him that the amounts which were shown to be in the safe and not found therein had been sent to the bank for being deposited.
apparently subba raju was fully satisfied with this and other explanations and therefore he appointed one c section raju who was the manager of andhra cements to supervise over the affairs of vesco apparently because of this a new method of misappropriation was adopted by the respondents by starting in the vesco account books an account called suspense account.
a lakh of rupees passed through that account.
amounts which were misappropriated used to find their way in this account.
a new cash book was also said to have been prepared by the conspirators with the object of covering up the misappropriations which had been made.
besides that c section raju s management of andhra cements had landed it into a loss of rs 30 000.
because of all these things he had c section raju replaced towards the end of the year 1951 by one subbaramayya a retired finance officer from the madras electricity board both as a director of andhra cements and as a supervisor over the accounts of vesco.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
as a result of investigation they found that there was a total misappropriation of rs 3 40 000.
od september 13 1954 ramana offered to make a full confession to the additional district magistrate independent who was empowered to grant pardon under section 337 of i he code of criminal procedure.
as already stated the additional sessions judge convicted both the respondents the respondent No i in respect of each head of the offences with which he was charged and the respondent No 2 in respect only of the offences of conspiracy and misappropriation.
the high court set aside the conviction of the respondents on a number of grounds.
in the first place according to the high court joint trial of two or more persons in respect of different offences cornmitted by each of them is illegal and that here as they were charged with having committed offences under section 120 b section 409 section 477 a and section 476467 i p c they could not be tried jointly.
according to it the provisions of section 239 were of no avail.
then according to the high court offences under.
charge of conspiracy according to the high court can be validly made only when the prosecution establishes that every conspirator expected to receive a personal benefit from it and that the prosecution has not been able to establish that the respondent No 2 or the approver evidently had any such expectations since they did not in fact receive any corresponding benefit.
in so far as the respondent No 2 is concerned the high court has held that since he was charged with a specific offence under s 409 i p c he could not be convicted of mere abetment of an offence.
the high court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the evidence act.
finally the high court held that the examination of the respondent under section 342 of the code was unfair for a number of reasons and that the additional sessions judge had failed to perform an important duty in that he did not call the attention of the respondents to the provisions of section 342 which enable an accused person to give evidence in his own behalf.
3 irrelevant evidence was introduced and some evidence was introduced in a manner not authorised by the evidence act.
4 that the court abused its powers under s 342 cr.
the first charge is in respect of the conspiracy alleged to have been entered into by the two respondents k v ramana the approver and others known and unknown to commit criminal breach of trust of the funds of vesco and in order to screen its detection to falsify the accounts of vesco and to use forged documents as genuine.
on the face of it this is a valid charge.
but certain objections have been taken to it with which we will deal at the appropriate place.
the second charge is for an offence of criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 and the accusation therein is that the two respondents along with ramana misappropriated 69 items aggregating to a little over rs 3 20 000.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
unless therefore the provisions of section 239 are applicable it would follow that there was a misjoinder of charges.
the third charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
ramana made false entries on seven different dates in the account books between september 19 1947 and march 18 1952 and thus committed an offence under section 477 a i p c the fourth charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
mr bhimasankaram supports the reason given by the high court for coming to the conclusion that there was a misjoinder of charges.
221 to 223 deal with the framing and content of charge.
226 to 231 deal with the power of the court with regard to framing and altering charges and the procedure to be adopted at the trial where a charge is found to be defective or there is no charge or where a new charge is to be framed.
234 235 236 and 239.
now if the respondent No 1 were alone tried upon the second third and the fourth charges the provisions of section 2351 could have been pressed in aid if the allegations were that the offences were so connected together as to form one and the same transaction and the validity of the trial would not have been open to any attack.
a conspiracy must be regarded as one transaction and there fore a single individual charged with it could be tried with the aid of section 2351 for all the acts committed by him in furtherance or in pursuance of the conspiracy without the limitations imposed by s 2341.
again as already stated section 2341 does not override the provisions of section 2351 which permits trial of a person for more offences than one committed during any period provided they are so connected together as to form one transaction.
c of section 239.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
the expression same transaction occurring in cls.
a c and d of section 239 as well as that occurring in section 2351 ought to be given the same meaning according to the normal rule of construction of statutes.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
we can not however give the expression such a restricted meaning.
for it is a rule of construction that all the provisions of a statute are to be read together and given effect to and that it is therefore the duty of the court to construe a statute harmoniously.
thus while it is clear that the sections preceding section 239 have no overriding effect on that section the courts are not to ignore them but apply such of them as can be applied without detracting from the provisions of s 239.
indeed the very expression so far as may be empha sises the fact that while the earlier provisions have to be borne in mind by the court while applying section 239 it is not those provisions but the latter which is to have an overriding effect.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
whether they can or can not be read cumulatively must be determined by consideration of the language used in those clauses.
on a plain construction of the provisions of section 239 therefore it is open to the court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law the provisions of sections 233 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
the decision of the allahabad high court in t r mukherji s case il is directly in point and is clearly to the effect that the different clauses of section 239 are mutually exclusive in the sense that it is not possible to combine the provisions of two or more clauses in any one case and to try jointly several persons partly by applying the provisions of one clause and partly by applying those of another or other clauses.
no corresponding advantage can be gained by the accused persons by following the procedure of separate trials.
but we find it difficult to appreciate what seems to be the view of the high court that because each  clause of section 239 enunciates a separate principle those principles are so to speak mutually exclusive and can not be cumulatively resorted to for trying several persons jointly in respect of several offences even though they form part of the same transaction.
a and b.
the offences are of the same kind and must be deemed to have been committed in the course of the same transaction because of association and mutual connection.
c they could be tried together because the offences are of the same kind.
a and c can not be combined.
a of section 239.
a and d of section 239.
all these persons can be jointly tried for offences under section 147 by recourse to cl.
a so also a b and c could be jointly tried together for an offences under section 302.
the same offence committed by all of them is that under section 147 and all of them can be tried jointly in respect of that offence under cl.
d by itself all of them can be tried jointly for the different offences committed by each of them in the course of the same transaction and if cl.
a is unavailable they could not be tried for the offence under section 147 at the same trial.
this means that the trial for an offence under section 147 will have to be separated from the trial for the different offences committed by them.
to repeat the object of the legislature in enacting section 239 cr.
being exceptions to section 233 must be strictly construed and that if joinder of charges did not fall under any of them it would be illegal and contrary to law.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
but on appeal by the state of andhra pradesh to this court this court held that there was no misjoinder of charges that the introduction of a large number of charges spread over a long period was a question of propriety and that it should be left to the judge or the magistrate trying the case to adopt the course which he thought to be appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case.
but then section 235 1 provides that if in any one series of acts so connected together as to form the same transaction more offences than one are committed by the same person he may be charged with and tried at one trial for every such offence.
239 would apply.
clearly therefore all the accused persons could be tried together in respect of all the offences now comprised in charge No 1.
this court has thus clearly read the provisions of the various clauses cumulatively and we see no reason to read them differently.
there remains the decision of this court in k v krishna murthy iyer v the state of madras in on which mr bhimasankaram strongly relied.
in that case this court upheld the order of the high court of madras in quashing the charges in the exercise of its inherent powers even before the conclusion of the trial.
but in the case before us no objection was taken to multiplicity or misjoinder of charges before the learned additional sessions judge and it was only in the high court that the point was raised.
this is quite clear from the provisions of section 537 of the code as amended by act 26 of 1955.
in willie william slaney v the state of madhya pradesh all the learned judges were in agreement on the point that this section and section 535 cover every case in which there is departure from the rules set out in ch.
the whole question has again been examined by this court recently in birichh bhuian v the state of bihar subba rao j who delivered the judgment of the court has stated the position thus even if we were to assume that there has been a misjoinder of charges in violation of the provisions of sections 233 to 239 of the code the high court was incompetent to set aside the conviction of the respondents without coming to the definite conclusion that misjoinder had occasioned failure of justice.
bhimasankaram supporting the view taken by the high court then contends that it is not permissible to frame a charge of conspiracy when the matter has proceeded beyond the stage of conspiracy and that in pursuance of it offences have actually been committed.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
negativing the contention.
mody v the state of bombay.
a No iii of 1959 decided on january 19 1961.
but the ultimate decision of the case would negative such argument.
the offence of conspiracy is an entirely independent offence and though other offences are committed in pursuance of the conspiracy the liability of the conspirators for the conspiracy itself can not disappear.
but what the amendment did was to make that conspiracy itself punishable.
but it does not follow that where crimes have been committed the liability to punishment already incurred under section 120 b by having entered into a criminal conspiracy is thereby wiped away.
as we are remanding the appeal to the high court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the evidence of the approver.
be said to vitiate the charge.
a pointed reference was made to question.
No 20 put to respondent.
the argument before the high court was and before us is that the absence of an entry can not of electricity duty to government.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
the decision in queen empress v grees chunder banerjee 1884 i l r 10.
cal 1024 upon which reliance is placed by the high court in support of its view is also to that effect.
similarly in ram prashad singh v lakhpati koer 1902 i l r 30.
cal 231 247.
absence of entries in their account books would be inconsistent with the receipt of the accounts and would thus be a relevant fact which can be proved under section 11.
similarly there is section 5 of the evidence act which reads thus it is the case of the prosecution that the alleged payments were never made by vesco to the various firms.
both the sets of facts are relevant that is non receipt of the amounts by the firms and non existence of entries in their account books pertaining to those amounts.
it is permissible therefore for the prosecution to lead evidence to drove both these facts.
it is under these provisions that the account books of the firms must be held to be relevant.
according to mr bhimasankaram the pardon tendered to the approver was illegal and if the pardon is illegal his evidence is wholly inadmissible.
further according to him the evidence of the approver was found by the additional sessions judge to be unreliable and therefore the first condition referred to in sarwan singh v the state of punjab was not satisfied.
the first reason is that none of the offences alleged to have been committed falls within section 337 of the code of criminal procedure and the second reason is that the pardon was granted by an authority not empowered to grant it.
for the pardon granted in this case can be regarded as being within the ambit of section 337 1 for another reason.
it will be noticed that transportation for life was not the only punishment provided for an offence under section 409 of the indian penal code even before the amendment made to the indian penal code by section 117 of the act 26 of 1955 the other alternative being imprisonment up to 10 years.
the reason why two alternative maximum sentences are given in col 7 that is transportation for life now imprisonment for life and imprisonment not exceeding 10 years appears to be that the offence is not exclusively triable by a court of session and could also be tried by a magistrate who except when empowered under section 30 would be incompetent to try offences punishable with transportation for life now imprisonment for life and the further reason that it should be open to the court of session instead of awarding the sentence of transportation for life to a convicted person to award him imprisonment in a jail in india itself for a period not execeeding 10 years.
be that as it may there is no substance in the first ground.
what we have said about pardon in respect of an offence under section 409 would apply equally to that for one under section 120 b because the punishment for it is the same as that for the offence under section 409.
the offence under section 467 read with section 471 is punishable with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of either description for a period of 10 years but it is exclusively triable by a court of session and therefore in so far as such offence is concerned the argument of mr bhimasankaram would not even have been available.
as regards the offence under section 477 a it is one of those sections which are specifically enumerated in section 337 1 and the argument advanced before us and which we have rejected would not even be available with regard to the pardon in respect of that offence.
it is true that the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge of this offence and the offence under section 467 read with section 471 but the validity of a pardon is to be determined with reference to the offence alleged against the approver alone and not with reference to the offence or offences for which his associates were ultimately convicted.
he contends that section 337 1 speaks of the district magistrate which expression does not include an additional district magistrate.
no doubt under entry 9 a in part iii of sch.
iii to the code a magistrate first class has the power to grant pardon under section 337 but it is limited by the proviso thereto to certain classes of cases.
a case under enquiry or trial before another magistrate does not fall in any of these classes.
therefore a pardon granted by him in such a case would be illegal.
the magistrate before whom the enquiry or trial is proceeding or the district magistrate would be the only authorities competent to grant a pardon in such a case.
alternatively the state government has not made any directions under sub s 2 of section 10 specifying the powers of the district magistrate which would lie exercisable by the additional district magistrate concerned.
by government order No 3106 dated september 9 1949 the government of the province of madras issued certain instructions to the magistrates in pursuance of the separation of the judiciary from the executive.
consequent on the separation.
iii to the code of criminal procedure the power to grant pardon will continue to have that power and therefore a pardon granted by a judicial magistrate in contravention of the government order will not be rendered invalid.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
according to him under that section only the powers of a district magistrate meaning thereby only the powers under entry 7 a in part v of sch.
as distinguished from the power under the proviso to section 337 1 can be conferred upon an additional district magistrate.
the power conferred by sub s 1 of section 337 on the different clauses of magistrates is of the same character.
the power to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate is no doubt conferred by the proviso only on the district magistrate.
but entry 7 a in part v of sch.
iii when it refers to the power of a district magistrate under section 337 1 does not exclude the power under the proviso.
there is therefore no warrant for drawing a distinction between the powers of the district magistrate and the powers of a district magistrate.
in re the appellant i l r 1957 mad 715 and the cases referred to therein in particular the decision in winson v queen 1866 l r i q b what has been held in all these cases is that where the trial of a person who was charged with having committed an offence or offences jointly with several persons is separated from the trial of those persons he would be a competent witness against them though of course there will always be the question as to what weight should be attached to his evidence.
but in the view we take about the legal validity of the pardon tendered we do not wish to pronounce one way or the other on this very interesting question.
whether the evidence of the approver should in any given case be accepted or not will have to be determined by applying the usual tests such as the probability of the truth of what he has deposed to the circumstances in which he has come to give evidence whether he has made a full and complete disclosure whether his evidence is merely self exculpatory and so on and so forth.
the court has in addition to ascertain whether his evidence has been corroborated sufficiently in material particulars.
the better course would be for us to set aside the acquittal of the respondents and send back the appeal to the high court or being decided on merits.
what it must now do is to consider the entire evidence and decide for itself whether it is sufficient to bring home all or any of the offences to the respondents.
of course the view taken by the additional sessions judge is not binding on the high court.
but it should remove from its mind the misconception that the additional sessions judge has not believed him.
the decision in sarwan singh v the state of punjab 1957 b c r 953 on which reliance has been placed by the high court has been explained by this court in the case of maj e g barsay v the state of bombay.
with these observations we set aside the acquittal of the respondents and remit the appeal to the high court for decision on merits in the light of our observations.
appeal allowed.
case remanded.
