three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
this estate vested in the state on april 1 1960 by force of the act and the crucial question agitated before us consequentially turns on the quantum of compensation awardable under chapter v of the act.
he has argued in person and with passion.
even so a minimal narration of the facts and a brief consideration of each argument is necessary and we proceed to do so.
although he waxed sentimentally on this note he did not convince us on his contentions.
the compensation officer is charged with fixing the quantum in the prescribed manner.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
of course when there is joint ownership section 24 stipulates that the compensation shall be determined for the estate as a whole and not separately for each of the shares therein.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit s points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
for convenience of reference we may extract the statement by the high court of the contentions urged before it and repeated before us by the appellant.
the provisions of section 373 read with section 262.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
but as the court directed that no further evidence on behalf of the state should be received ext.
a1 is inadmissible in evidence.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
6 unlike in case of fisheries etc.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
therefore deduction of income tax from the gross assets is illegal and unwarranted.
but before examining this essential issue we may dispose of the minor points pressed so that the deck may be cleared for dealing with what deserves to be dealt with.
law is sometimes blind.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
here again the flaw in the submission consists in mis reading section 27 of the act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum which was payable by the intermediary as income tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year.
if a notional income on the assumed basis can be used for fixing compensation a notional income tax can be calculated and deducted.
the section is clear that the gross income from forests must be calculated on the basis of appraisal of the annual yield on the date of vesting firstly by a forest officer and secondly by the chief conservator of forests screening it and approving it.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
equally clearly a slight error has crept into the judge s order because he does not make any reference specifically to the statutory requirement of approval of the chief conservator of forests of the appraisement made by the forest officer.
however what followed is interesting though erroneous.
but he pointed out that the forest officer had omitted to include the income from kendu leaves and added that sum to the income from forests.
both the state and the appellant filed appeals to the collector which were dismissed.
a second appeal was filed by the appellant before the board of revenue without success.
from this narrative what follows is that the chief conservator had substituted his appraisement which was accepted by the statutory tribunal.
it is astonishing that anyone should urge as the appellant did that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made and since that had not been done the compensation officer had become functus officio in awarding compensation.
before the date of vesting the state never can nor does fix the compensation through the compensation officer in any of the agrarian reform laws and these compensation operations are post statutory exercises.
therefore there is no substance in the functus officio argument.
if the officer had no jurisdiction the land would be gone because of the vesting provision and no compensation would be forthcoming for want of jurisdiction a consequence the appellant never wants.
technicality can be frightened away by technicality.
nor is it right to contend as the appellant did that the compensation officer s jurisdiction was created by the order of remand by the high court.
no it was created by the statute and canalised by the order of remand.
it follows that after the present second remand the re appraisal of the annual net income can not be done solely by the forest officer without securing the approval of the chief conservator.
nor can the compensation officer by pass the chief conservator on the misunderstood strength of the high court s first order of remand.
and this holds good after the second remand order that the forest officer will do the appraisement of the annual income forward his report to the chief conservator of forests who will take the said report into consideration and if necessary make modifications therein or approve it with such changes as he deems fit.
certainly the chief conservator can not be ignored by the compensation officer nor can the chief conservator ignore the assessment made by the forest officer and go through an independent exercise.
with these directions and observations we affirm the orders under appeal but while dismissing the appeals direct the parties to bear their costs in this court.
