this appeal by special leave has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of bombay high court aurangabad bench by which the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed and their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc and sentence of 7 years ri imposed thereunder by the learned sessions judge aurangabad was affirmed.
the deceased bhimabai was daughter of pw 1 tukaram eknath tambe resident of village sanjkheda.
and she was married to appellant No 1.
the appellant No 2 kadubai is the mother of the appellant No 1 and both the appellants were residing in the same house in village palshi.
on the basis of the said accidental death report pw 6 sandeepan kamble police sub inspector visited the house of the accused held inquest on the dead body of bhimabai and thereafter sent the same for post mortem examination.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
the learned sessions judge framed charges under sections 498 a 304 b read with section 34 ipc and section 306 read with section 34 ipc against both the appellants.
the appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
the learned sessions judge after consideration of the material on record acquitted the appellants of the charges under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but convicted them under section 304 b ipc and imposed a sentence of 7 years ri thereunder.
the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed by the high court by the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005.
the doctors did not find any sign of external or internal injury on the body of the deceased and in their opinion the cause of death was insecticide poisoning.
1 tukaram father of the deceased has given details of the prosecution version of the incident in his statement in court.
and that was the cause.
p c which was recorded on the very next day of the death of bhimabai this witness did not state that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
accepting the statements of father and mother on their face value that utmost which can be held is that the appellant no 1 had asked his wife bhimabai to bring money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
two essential ingredient of section 304 b ipc apart from others are i death of women is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances and ii women is subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry.
the explanation appended to sub section 1 of section 304 b ipc says that dowry shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of dowry prohibition act 1961.
section 2 of dowry prohibition act reads as under 2.
in view of the aforesaid definition of the word dowry any property or valuable security should be given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties.
being a penal provision it has to be strictly construed.
dowry is a fairly well known social custom or practice in india.
it is well settled principle of interpretation of statute that if the act is passed with reference to a particular trade business or transaction and words are used which everybody conversant with that trade business or transaction knows or understands to have a particular meaning in it then the words are to be construed as having that particular meaning.
see union of india v garware nylons ltd air 1996.
sc 3509 1996 indlaw sc 2404 and chemicals and fibres of india v union of india air 1997.
sc 558 1991 indlaw sc 861.
a demand for money on account of some financial stringency or for meeting some urgent domestic expenses of for purchasing manure can not be termed as a demand for dowry as the said word is normally understood.
the evidence adduced by the prosecution does not therefore show that any demand for dowry as defined in section 2 of the dowry prohibition act was made by the appellants as what was allegedly asked for was some money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
since an essential ingredient of section 304 b ipc viz demand for dowry is not established the conviction of the appellants can not be sustained.
it has thus been submitted that no offence under section 306 ipc is made out against the appellants.
as already stated the appellants were also charged under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but were acquitted of the said charges by the learned sessions judge which order has attained finality for the reason that the state did not prefer appeal against the same.
the appeal before the high court and also in this court has been preferred by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc.
it has been held in state of andhra pradesh v thadi narayan air 1962.
therefore we have refrained from expressing any opinion as to whether the appellants could be held guilty of having committed the offence under section 498 a or 306 ipc on the basis of evidence available on record as their acquittal under the aforesaid charges has attained finality and can not be reversed in the appeal filed by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304 b ipc.
in view of the discussion made above the appeal is allowed.
the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of the high court and the judgment and order dated 04 january 1993 of the learned sessions judge convicting the appellants under section 304 b ipc are set aside and the appellants are acquitted of the said charge.
the appellant no 1 is in custody.
the appellant No 2 is on bail.
