twelve accused persons were tried for offences under section 302307149324147148 and section 3 of terrorist and disruptive activites.
prevention act1987 hereinafter referred to as tada by the learned designated judge pune.
out of the said twelve accused6 accused were acquitted of all the charges while the five appellants herein namely bonkya alias bharat shivaji mane a 5mandu baliba dombe a 8ashok baloba dombe a 9ranjar bhausaheb dombe a 10 and kaka alias pandurang baloba dombe a 11 were convicted for offences under section 302307149 ipc and section 3 of tada and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment and to pay a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 302149 ipc.
10 years ri and a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 307149 ipc 2 years ri for the offence under section 324149 ipc and life imprisonment and fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 3 of tada in default of payment of fine on each of the counts the appellants were to undergo further ri for two years each.
the substantive sentences of imprisonment were however directed to run concurrently.
one accused died during the pendency of the trial.
through this appeal under section 19 of tada the appellants have called in question their conviction and sentence.
for the sake of convenience the accused shall be referred to hereinafter by the number assigned to them in the trial court judgment as accused i e a 5a 8a 10 etc.
according to the prosecution case on 11th august1990 at about 3 00 p m anna shety band patte mukesh ramesh and prakash band patte had gone to the vrindavan video parlour for watching a movie.
the accused a 6a 10 and a 11 alongwith one other person were also present at the video parlour.
there was an altercation between the accused and the complainant party when the leg of kaka dombe a 11 dashed against the leg of anna shety band patte.
pw both the prosecution witnesses as well as.
the accused party left the video parlour threatening each other.
the complainant party went towards jagdamba hotel owned by waman band patte pw at that time baban karpe bajrang band patte sanjay mane ramesh pawar were also present near the hotel.
appellants a 5a 10 and a 11 thereafter assaulted bajrang band patte pw 14 on his head in front of the hotel.
police inspector joshi arrived at the hospital and baban karpe pw 9 narrated the occurrence to him which was reduced into writing.
on the basis of the said report an fir for offences under section 302307149147148 ipc was registered vide cr no 101 of 1990 at about 6 00 p m the inquest on the dead body of popat was conducted and the body was sent for post mortem examination.
an auto rickshaw bearing registration no mwq 5624 belonging to manik bhende gavali was found abandoned in a damaged condition with broken glasses.
it was also taken into possession vide a panchnama.
on a disclosure statement made by a 11 before the police and the panches under section 27 of the evidence act and on his pointing out a sword was recovered from the field at korti where it lay buried.
a 10 also made a disclosure statement under section 27 of the evidence act to the effect that he had buried a sword behind yamai tukai temple and could get it recovered.
during the investigation an identification parade was got conducted through the executive magistrate pw 32 when baban karpe pw 9 and other prosecution witnesses identified the assailants.
samples of blood of the accused were collected for ascertaining their blood groups and sent for chemical analysis.
after completion of the investigation two charge sheets arising out of crime no 10190 and crime no 10290 were filed before the designated court.
p 35requested the court for holding trial in respect of both the chargesheets together which application was allowed by the designated court vide order dated 5 december 1992 and that is how both the cases were tried together by virtue of the provisions of section 220 1 cr.
p c as the series of acts in both the cases were so inter connected as to form one transaction.
at the trial the prosecution alleged that the accused party with an intent to commit terror in the wadar community had committed the murder of popat and injured pw 9 and pw 14by using lethal weapons and had thereby committed terror in the wadar community and thus committed an offence under section 3 of tada besides the other offences as already noticed.
the plea of the remaining accused in their statements under section 313 cr.
according to a 2a 3a 5a 6 and a 7 they had been identified by pw 9during the identification parade at the instance of the police.
3 verticle incised wound 5 x 1 x 1 cms.
pw 22 opined that these injuries individually as well as collectively were sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
pw 9 was examined by dr khiste pw 22 who noticed the following two injuries on his person 1 transverse superficial incised wound 10x12 cm on posterior of left knee in popliteal.
2 abraded contusion below right knee and front of right leg5 x 5 cm.
bone deep.
the defence plea of total denial and false implication has been rightly rejected by the designated court in view of the over whelming cogent and reliable prosecution evidence.
the trial court for the purposes of consideration of the evidence divided the prosecution case into three parts namely i the incident at vrindavan video parlour ii incident near jagdamba hotel and iii the incident at the math.
some of the other witnesses including popat deceased and baban pw 9 fled towards the math to save themselves.
we do not find any force in the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that since mohan lal pw 19who runs the video parlour has not fully supported the prosecution version regarding the cause of altercation at the video parlour the genesis of the occurrence gets shrouded in doubt.
pw 19 was declared hostile by the prosecution and was cross examined by the addl.
public prosecutor.
from the testimony of pw9it stands established that while mukesh pw 12 was narrating the incident which had taken place at the video parlour the appellants alongwith 78 other persons arrived in a jeep and two auto rickshaws armed with swords satturs and sticks and opened the assault on the prosecution witnesses and that a 11 and his two associates assaulted pw 14 with swords.
an identification parade had been held by shri shrikant chimanaji jahagirdar pw 32executive magistrate.
the prosecution has not been able to establish the case against a 10 beyond a reasonable doubt and is our opinion he is entitled to the benefit of the doubt.
the designated court after considering the evidence of the first incident and the manner of assault on the deceased and pw 9 and pw 14came to the conclusion that the appellants alongwith some others had intended to create terror in a section of the people wadar community and with that intention had assaulted pw 14the deceased and pw9 by lethal weapons and were therefore guilty of committing an offence under section 3 tada.
there is no basis for such an assumption.
can it be said that the accused had the intention to strike terror much less in a particular section of the society when they entered into an altercation at the video parlour or even when they went after the complainant party and opened an assault on then opposite jagdamba hotel or at the math.
none out of those who were present at the video parlour received any injury and there is no material on the record to show as to which community did they belong to either.
prosecution has led no evidence nor brought any circumstances on the record from which any inference may be drawn that the appellants intended to strike terror amongst the wadar community.
in hitendra vishnu thakur and others vs.
1994 indlaw sc 1706 this court opined that the criminal activity in order to invoke tada must be committed with the requisite intention as contemplated by section 31 of the act by use of such weapons as have been enumerated therein and which cause or are likely to result in the commission of offences as mentioned in that section.
in fairness to the learned counsel for the state mr madhav reddy sr advocate we must also record that he conceded that in the facts and circumstances of the case and keeping in view the law laid down by the constitution bench in kartar singh s case 1994.
the conviction and sentence of the appellants for the offence under section 3 tada can not therefore be sustained and is hereby set aside.
he shall be released from custody forthwith if not required in any other case.
learned counsel submitted that the appellants should not be denied the opportunity to get the first hearing in the high court because in the event of their failure in the high court they still have a chance to approach this court under article 136 of the constitution of india.
the argument is fallacious and runs in the teeth of the express provisions of section 19 of tada.
section 19 1 and 2 of tada read as follows.
a bare perusal of the above section shows that an appeal against the judgment sentence or order of the designated court except an interlocutory order shall lie on facts and on law to the supreme court and that no appeal or revision shall lie to any other court.
in the face of this express provision there is no scope to urge that the appeal may be transferred to the high court because of the acquittal of the appellants for the offence punishable under section 3 tada by us.
under section 12 of tada the designated court has the jurisdiction not only to try the cases under tada but also to try offences under the indian penal code if the offence under tada is connected with such other offences.
the amplitude of powers available to this court under article 142 of the constitution of india is normally speaking not conditioned by any statutory provision but it can not be lost sight of that this court exercises jurisdiction under article 142 of the constitution with a view to do justice between the parties but not in disregard of the relevant statutory provisions.
