the state of manipur is in appeal before us questioning the judgment and order dated 29 07 2005 passed by a division bench of the guwahati high court in wa nos 61787995 and 100 of 1999 upholding a judgment and order of a learned single judge of the said court dated 19 02 1999 in c r nos 32410125681022 and 1023 of 1998.
one shri a j tayeng was the revenue commissioner of government of manipur.
the state of manipur had not framed any recruitment rules for appointment inter alia in the revenue department and in particular the field staff thereof.
the commissioner of revenue department was conferred with a power of being the cadre controlling authority for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
he was also to be the chairman of the departmental promotion committee for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
the commissioner allegedly made certain appointments in the posts of mandols process servers and zilladars which was not within the knowledge of the state.
the said appointments were made on temporary basis.
appointments were made on 11 09 199722 11 1997 and 5 12 1997 a sample copy of the offer of appointment reads as under no 11497 com rev on the recommendation of d p c and under the directives issued by the honourable gauhati high court the following persons are hereby appointed as mandols on temporary basis in the scale of pay of rs 950 20 1150 eb 25 1400 per month with usual allowances against thereto existing clear vacancies of mandals under revenue department from the date of their joining on duties.
2 further they are posted at the places indicate against their names 3 the expenditure is debitable under appropriate heads of accounts of the departments offices concerned.
no record in regard to the said recruitments was maintained.
an inquiry was therefore made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
shri tayeng by a uo note dated 12 01 1998 denied to have made such an appointment stating confidential u o no 21593 com r pt.
with reference to the u o letter no 21593 comr pt.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
shri robert shaiza was instructed to take care.
i therefore deny making of such appointments.
on the other hand md.
a r khan secretary revenue has made many appointments of mandols process servers zilladars in the recent months against which i have been complaining that the secretary revenue has no power or authority to make any appointments of field staff as per rules provided under m l r act1960 in this regard i have apprised the matter to the honourable minister revenue already and also informed the chief secretary manipur explaining that the secretary revenue can not make such appointments of field staffs even if he wanted to do so all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the honourable minister revenue his action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
it is for this reason i have been writing to all the deputy commissioners in the districts even by sending w t messages clarifying the actual position of making any appointment of revenue field staff.
i still deny that i have made any appointment of field staffs of revenue department during the recent months.
submitted for information and consideration.
sd 12198 annayok j tayeng.
commissioner revenue.
govt of manipur minister revenue.
their appointments were also cancelled on similar grounds.
the respondents herein filed writ petitions before the high court on 4 06 1998 questioning the said order of cancellation of their appointments.
the said shri tayeng retired on 28 02 1998 despite the fact that he in his uo note dated 12 02 1998 addressed to the minister of revenue denied to have made any appointment when approached by the writ petitioners respondents he affirmed in their support an affidavit in the high court stating 3 that while i was functioning as revenue commissioner manipur matters relating to appointment on the recommendation of the d p c transfer etc were put up to me in files and i used to pass order on the basis of facts presented to me in file.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
the xerox copy of the cyclostyled appointment order bearing no 11497.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
i submit that these appointment orders annexures a1 and a2 bear my signature initial and appear to have been issued under my signature.
it appears that the appointment orders were issued after complying the formalities prescribed there for which can be ascertained from the relevant official file.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on kendriya vidyalaya sangathan and others v ajay kumar das and others 2002 4 scc 503 2002 indlaw sc 287.
it was argued that the question as to whether appointments were made without the knowledge of the department or for that matter whether any record was available there for was of not much significance as in effect and substance they lead to the same inference and in that view of the matter the decision of this court in mohinder singh gill 1977 indlaw sc 53 supra was not attracted.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on parshotam lal dhingra v union of india.
v kothampatti muniyandavar temple by trustee pappathi ammal.
the state while offering appointments having regard to the constitutional scheme adumbrated in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india must comply with its constitutional duty subject to just and proper exceptions to give an opportunity of being considered for appointment to all persons eligible there for.
the offers of appointment were cancelled not on the ground that some irregularities had been committed in the process of recruitment but on the ground that they had been non est in the eye of law.
the purported appointment letters were fake ones.
they were not issued by any authority competent therefor.
if the offers of appointments issued in favour of the respondents herein were forged documents the state could not have been compelled to pay salaries to them from the state exchequer.
he was merely put a chairman of the dpc for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
it is true that where appointments had been made by a competent authority or at least some steps have been taken in that behalf the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with in view of the decision of this court in murugayya udayar 1991 indlaw sc 904 supra.
we as noticed hereinbefore do not know as to under what circumstances the orders of appointments were issued.
in kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 suprathis court was dealing with a question in regard to continuance of the law officers.
the question which arose herein was not raised.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
this distinction between the state and a private individual in the field of contract has to be borne in the mind.
their appointment is in the first instance for one year.
the renewal of their further term again depends upon the quality of work and conduct capacity as a lawyer professional conduct public reputation in general and character and integrity as certified by the district magistrate and the district judge.
the shortcomings in the work are required to be brought to the notice of the legal remembrancer.
the latter are not appointed as a part of the spoils system.
in parshotam lal dhingra 1957 indlaw sc 103.
what then is the meaning of those expressions dismissed removed or reduced in rank.
in m c mehta v union of india and others 1999 6 scc 237 1999 indlaw sc 1396this court developed the useless formality theory stating more recently lord bingham has deprecated the useless formality theory in r v.
in kendriya vidyalaya sangathan 2002 indlaw sc 287 suprait was held it is clear that if after the termination of services of the said dr k c rakesh the orders of appointment are issued such orders are not valid.
if such appointment orders are a nullity the question of observance of principles of natural justice would not arise.
for the reasons aforementioned the impugned judgments can not be sustained.
