that suit was resisted by the defendants each of them having filed separate written statements which in sub stance did not differ from each other.
the defence in those written statements was that defendant l and his family members had become tenants of the suit properties in the year 1959 1960 and had continued to be such tenants at the time of mortgage deeds executed in respect of those properties in the year 1961 and thereafter.
such findings were firstly that the defendants had failed to prove that the suit properties were sold in favour of defendant l subsequent to the giving of security of those properties in his favour under the mortgage deeds secondly that the defendants had failed to prove the past tenancy of the suit properties on its view that what was pleaded by them in the written statements was tenancy prior to the date of filing of the suit and thirdly that the mortgages of the suit properties were mortgages by conditional sale.
on the basis of findings so recorded by the civil.
court it also made a preliminary decree in favour of the plaintiff for redemption of the suit properties.
though the defendants filed an appeal in the court of the district judge baroda against the said preliminary decree that appeal came to be dismissed on august 171972 affirming the judgment and decree of the civil court.
however the defendants questioned the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court by filing a second appeal against the same in the high court of gujarat.
a learned single judge of the high court who heard the second appeal while upheld the concurrent findings of the courts below that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties in favour of defendant l were mortgages by conditional sale and the defendants had failed to prove that there was sale of the suit properties in their favour subsequent to the coming into existence of the said mortgages found that the defendants had raised in their written statements the plea that they were tenants not only prior to the date of suit but also at the time of the filing of the suit and having regard to that plea the suit ought to have been stayed by the civil court and the issue of tenancy should have been referred to the mamlatdar for obtaining a finding from him thereon both under section 85 a of the bt.
al act as it stood before its amendment at the time of filing of the suit and as it stood after its amendment after the filing of the suit.
specific case pleaded by the plaintiff in the plaint as regards possession of the suit properties held by tenants was that their possession which was with the plaintiff was given to defendant l on the execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour.
in any event it was not the case of the plaintiff that defendant l was a tenant of the suit properties and hc surrendered his possession of the suit properties either expressly or impliedly and the possession so obtained by the plaintiff was re delivered to defendant l in pursuance of the mortgages by conditional sale executed in his favour.
however the arguments addressed before us on behalf of the plaintiff appellant in support of the appeal by learned senior counsel mr s k dholakia were these that defendant l respondent l although was in possession of the suit properties.
according 10 him a mortgagee in possession being a person who can not be deemed to be a tenant under section 4 of the bt al act it was not open to the defendants to claim that they were the tenants of suit properties and if that be so question of raising issue of tenancy by the civil court in the suit before it did not arise at all nor was it necessary to refer such issue to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bt al act and stay the suit till receipt of the finding on such issue as was directed by the high court in its judgment under appeal.
even otherwise it was argued by him that the civil court before whom the plaintiff had filed the suit for redemption of the suit properties could not have driven the plaintiff to the forum of mamlatdar merely because the defendants had raised the plea that they were tenants of the suit properties agricultural lands.
however learned counsel appearing for the defendants respondents sought to refute the arguments advanced on half of the plaintiff appellant.
this act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context18 tenant means a person who holds land on lease and include a a person who is deemed to be tenant trader section 4 b a person who is a protected tenant and c a person who is a permanent tenant and the word landlord shall be construed accordingly.
4 a person lawfully cultivating any land belonging to another person shall be deemed to be a tenant if such land is not cultivated personally by the owner and if such person is not a a member of the owner s family or b a servant on wages payable in cash or kind but not in crop share or a hired labourer cultivating the land under the personal supervision of the owner or any member of the owner s family or c a mortgagee in possession.
85a i.
merger takes place when a lesser estate is merged or drowned in a greater estate.
lease hold held by a tenant or a lessee being a lesser estate and the right of reversion of the landlord lessor being a higher estate the lessee s lease hold right in respect of the property merges in reversion when that right of reversion i e.
when the landlord mortgages the lease hold property of the tenant to the tenant himself he does not part with the right of reversion which he has in respect of that property.
if that be so merger of lease hold estate in reversion can not arise inasmuch as there can not be any inconsistency or incompatibility in one person being the tenant and also the mortgagee of the same property for in that event instead of the tenant paying rent to the landlord he may adjust it against the amount claimable by him as a mortgagee from the landlord.
moreover if a lessee of a property takes a mortgage of the sum property from the landlord it would be unreasonable to attribute to a tenant the intention to surrender the tenancy and to invoke the sophisticated doctrine of implied surrender as has been held by the gujarat high court in patel atmaram nathudas v babubhai keshavlal 1974 indlaw guj 88.
in the present case as has already been pointed out by us the plaintiff appellant did not claim that the defendants or any of them were in possession of the suit properties as tenants and there was a surrender by them of the possession either expressly or impliedly as would make the court to come to the conclusion that the possession of the suit properties with the defendants was surrendered by them pursuant to the mortgage by conditional sale executed in their favour.
since the following observations in the said case confirm the view we have taken on non merger they can be excerpted for a merger to arise it is necessary that a lesser estate and a higher estate should merge in one person at one and the same time and in the same right and no interest in the property should remain outside.
in the case of a mortgage the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagor.
coming to g appalaswamy case 1984 indlaw sc 314 supra which considered the question whether a sitting tenant who took property by a possessory or usufructuary mortgage in his favour was liable to deliver physical possession upon redemption to the mortgagor.
former lessor this court dealing with the said question said that all depends upon whether there was an implied surrender of the lessee s rights when the usufructuary mortgage was executed in his favour by the lessor mortgagor and only if an implied surrender of lossee s rights could be inferred then the mortgagor would be entitled to have delivery of physical possession upon redemption but not otherwise.
hence the lease hold of a tenant lessee in a property does not merge in mortgage security of that property even if it is given to.
question 2.
the only question which arose for decision in topandas case 1963 indlaw sc 379 supra was whether on a proper interpretation of section 28 of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control.
bombay had exclusive jurisdiction in dealing with the suit out of which the appeal had arisen.
the plaint averments were that appellant 1 defendant 1 had appointed the respondent as his commission agent for the sale of the appellants cloth in the shop in question.
the defence of the appellants defendants in substance was that the agreement on which reliance was placed by the respondents in their suit was a sham agreement and that the appellants in reality were the tenants of the shop and the relationship between the respondents and appellants was that of the landlord and tenant.
the further plea taken in the written statement by the appellants was that as the question involved in the suit related to the possession of premises as between a landlord and his tenant the court of small causes bombay alone had jurisdiction to try the suit.
if therefore the plaintiff in his plaint does not admit a relation which would attract any of the provisions of the act on which the exclusive jurisdiction given under s 28 depends we do not think that the defendant by his plea can force the plaintiff to go to a forum where on his averments he can not go.
further section 85 of the bt al act to which also we have already adverted in unequivocal terms says that in deciding any issue which is required to be decided by the mamlatdar under the bt al act no civil court has jurisdiction to decide it.
thus the provisions in the bt al act give no scope or room to think that the plea of tenancy if raised by the defendants in a suit in a civil court the same could be decided by the civil court.
thus we are constrained to answer the question in the negative by agreeing with the view expressed by the single judge of the high court in this regard in his judgment and order under appeal.
in the result we dismiss this appeal with costs.
appeal dismissed.
