we have heard learned counsel on both sides.
the respondents entered into an agreement with sudhir kumar sen on november 31948 to render technical know how to the indian company to be formed which would manufacture bicycles and market them under raleigh s indian trade marks.
the agreement dated december 291962 was modified and the respondents were given option to terminate the agreement.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
on october 241980sen raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant corporation by publication of the notification under idr act.
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.
u s 482 of the act up to the date of one month before filing that rectification application.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
the conduct of the respondents was not violative of s 32b and c the court in those circumstances declined to rectify the trade mark and strike it off from the register of trade marks.
there is no specific bar for an unregistered lincesee to use registered trade mark so long as there is a connection in the course of trade between the licenser and the lincesee.
non registration of the user agreement by sen raleigh and the appellant was due to the default of the latter.
the appellant had not taken any steps to withdraw registered user applications and as such should not be permitted to take such a contradictory stand of applying for rectification at the same time.
the discretion therefore was not to be extended in favour of the appellant.
thus this appeal by special leave.
the respondents admittedly did not use the same.
on the other hand it is for the respondent to prove the same.
the respondents did not prove that they were prevented to use the same for 5 years or more preceding the date of the application.
in normal circumstances when it is established that the trade mark was not used either by the registered proprietor or the permitted user the public interest of supply of the quality of the goods marketed by the appellant should be taken into factual consideration for removal of the trade mark from the register.
shri ashok desai learned senior counsel for respondents resisted the contentions.
the discretion exercised by the court must be judged in the light of the facts and circumstances the appellant having used the trade mark it does not lie in the mouth of the appellant to contend that he is not a permitted user or a bona fide user of the trade mark.
in view of the diverse contentions the question arises whether the high court was right in refusing to rectify and strike off the trade marks of the respondents from the register of trade marks.
s 461b reads as under.
46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1.
s 48 provides for registered users which reads thus 48 registered users  1 subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark but the central government may by rules made in this behalf provide that no application for registration as such shall be entertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks 2 permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be use by the proprietor thereof and shall be used by a person the proprietor for the purpose of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.
s 48 1 envisages that subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as a registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as defensive trade mark.
the permitted use of trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the proprietor thereof and shall be deemed no to be used by a person other than the proprietor for the purpose of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under the act or any other law.
the high court recorded a finding and it is not disputed across the bar that the appellant had entered into an agreement with sen raleigh which was a permitted user and used the trade mark till november 11976 and thereafter by registered user agreement dated december 201976 used trade mark for a period of 5 years.
the question therefore is whether the appellant must be deemed to be bona fide user of the trade mark though there was no agreement nor was it registered as permitted user u s 481.
on admitted position and in the facts and circumstances we are of the view that the appellant was a ago user of the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent who admittedly is a registered proprietor.
it requires to be prevented and prohibited.
the court would not lend assistance to such registered proprietors of the trade mark.
it is a question of fact in every case.
it is seen that preceding the nationalization of the cycle manufacturing industry under the idr act the respondent had a collaboration agreement with sen raliegh who was a registered user under section 48 from him the appellant came to succeed by statutory operation.
it was therefore not a case of getting the trade mark registered under the predecessor act and continuing under the act for trafficking of the trade mark.
it is true that u s 431 either the registered proprietor or a permitted person is required to register as permitted user.
in k r beri and co vs.
then the burden shifts to the proprietor of the trade mark to affirmatively prove the special circumstances for non user of trade mark.
it must be shown that the non use of the trade mark is due to special circumstances of the trade and not due to some other cause which would have operated whether the special circumstances had arisen off not.
if the non user was in fact due to some other circumstances and would have occured whether the circumstances had followed or not subs 3 would not apply.
it must therefore be duty of the registered proprietor to show what non user was strictly due to the special circumstances of trade and not of any intention on the part of the registered proprietor not to use the trade mark during the relevant period.
though there was a ban on impart of the raleigh cycles manufactured outside india and passed off under the registered mark of the respondents as a registered proprietor the circumstances do not attracted sub section 3 of s 46 to relieve the respondents to establish non user but on the facts of this case we have the admitted position that sen raleigh admittedly was a registered user through which the appellant had bona fide used the registered trade mark of the registered proprietor there is no discontinuance or non use of the trade mark by the respondent to establish the special circumstances in this case.
suffice it to hold that subs 3 of s 46.
the question then is whether the discretion has been properly exercised by both the division bench as well the single judge in refusing to take off the trade mark from the register by striking off trade mark from the register of the registrar of trade marks.
it is seen that the appellant had not abandoned at any point of time the use of the trade mark of the respondent registered proprietor till filing of the application.
suffice it to state that the appellant as a fact had used the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles manufactured by it.
