a number of averments germane to this case as set out in the plaint are set out hereunder.
the petitioners are also pioneers in making use of doordarshan for advertising their products through the agency of the 1st respondent approached the 1st respondent to act as their agents for the purpose of producing a serial which would be shown as petitioners sponsored programme.
the petitioners agreed to pay the entire costs of the said production to the said advertising agency and requested it to look into the matter employed various persons on behalf of the petitioners and prepare a suitable serial for them.
pursuant to the said arrangement the respondent nos 1 to 4 as the agents of the petitioners prepared at the costs and expenses of the petitioners a serial entitled yeh jo hai zindagi.
the petitioners claimed that as a result of the employment of the respondent nos 1 to 4 and the finances paid by them the petitioners are the owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the title thereof.
yeh jo hai zindagi had gained popularity and had become one of the most exclusive and popular serial.
the petitioners claimed that the exclusive right to use the title thereof belonged to them and the 2nd episode of yeh jo hai zindagi was telecast without the name of the petitioners being mentioned as sponsors nor was their advertisement shown.
this was due to the negligence of the respondent nos 1 to 4 but the respondents recovered the cost of production from the petitioners.
further the said respondents had been recovering the cost of production well in advance of the serial episodes being actually produced.
the petitioners claimed that they were the real producers and owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the petitioners to the knowledge of the respondents have entered into an agreement assigning the video rights in the said serial to one m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
however the petitioners were not interested in the same as they wanted the serial to project their products only exclusively and did not agree to any other products being tied up with the said serial.
it was also pointed out that the name yeh jo hai zindagi is associated with the vicco laboratories and that if they wanted to obtain another sponsor they could produce a new serial under a different name.
the petitioners apprehended that the respondent nos 1 to 3 intended to produce further episodes under the title yeh jo hai zindagi making use of the same format as the earlier serial for and on behalf of the third party.
the petitioners reserved their right to sue for damages in terms of order ii rule 2 cpc.
apart from raising the question of valuation of the suit and the pecuniary jurisdiction of the court to try the same they also raised question that the petitioners are not the owners of the copyright in the said serial within the meaning of s 17 of the copyright act1957 and the copyright in respect of the said serial belongs and vests with the respondent nos 1 to 4.
ltd under the agreement dated 1 januray 198504 march 1985 and 16 september 1985 the advertisements issued by the petitioners themselves in various newspapers to give wide publicity to the said serial would indicate that the serial mentioned these respondents are the owners of the copyright in respect of the said serial and the petitioners claim in that behalf is devoid of any substance.
the respondents also contended that even assuming but without admitting that even if the petitioners are the owners of the copyright in respect of the said serial as on the date of the suit they ceased to be such owners in view of the fact that these rights vested in them before the institution of the suit and they have acquiesced in the exercise of the said right by these respondents by their conduct as referred to earlier.
it was also contended that the 2nd respondent is an artist and a film maker and has been in the field of film making for the past 20 years.
in the year 1967the 2nd respondent s wife mrs sunanda s oberoi started the proprietary business of advertising agency in the name and style of art commercial and the 2nd respondent used to work in various capacities for the said firm.
these ad films and jingles fetched handsome returns for the petitioners and boosted their sales beyond their own expectations.
petitioners agreed to link up their ads with 26 episodes of the said serial.
in these circumstances the respondents contended that by entering into the said agreement of sponsorship neither the petitioners nor the respondents created nor did they ever intend to create any relationship of employer and employee andor master and servant or principal and agent between the petitioners on the one hand and the respondents no 1 to 4 on the other.
in the meanwhile the respondents contended that m s brook bond ltd who wanted to link up their commercial with 13 episodes and agreed to pay and paid the ruling market price.
the respondents contended that on no occasion the petitioners acted as a producer and even the contract was signed by the petitioners as an advertiser and by the respondent no 1 as an approved agent.
the defendants prove that the plaintiffs are not the owners of the copyright of the tv serial film viz.
yeh jo hai zindagi within the meaning of s 17 of the copyright act.
the suit suffer from non joinder of necessary parties.
the plaintiffs entitled to the declaration sought.
12 what order.
it was also held that the respondents proved that the petitioners are not the owners of the copy right of the tv serial film viz.
that was the first occasion when the format was presented to the petitioners.
the trial court also relied on exhibit c 1 which indicated that the respondents were submitting a format for the serial which was to be registered on behalf of the client m s vicco laboratories.
the learned judge of the trial court took the view that this letter nowhere mentioned that the respondents wanted to register their format on behalf of their producers which is consistent with the modern norms of advertising.
the trial court examined in detail the letter dated 19 july 1984 exhibit f 1 written by shri g k pendharkar of the petitioners and concluded that averments made in the plaint stated that the original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the serial programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes.
in one of the contracts exhibit h 1 the wording used is as under sponsorship of programme of 25 mts duration produced by sponsor entitled yeh jo hai zindagi including 2 mts free commercial time.
relying upon this letter emphasis was laid on the words produced by sponsors whether two capacities sponsor and producer can co exist in one and the same person or not has been examined and the trial court noted that the wording had been borrowed from the tariff card and tariff card also indicated what are the categories of the advertisers and rates thereof.
it is held that words produced by sponsors would not mean that the sponsors themselves are the producers of the said programmes as is clear from the tariff card.
strong reliance was placed upon certain circumstances namely that the format had been approved by the petitioners only on 11 july 1984 and pw 1 admitted that in view of the bill the entry claiming deduction made by the petitioners in their accounts in the financial year ending on 30 march 1984 that the amount was not to be paid for all 26 episodes or even thereafter in lump sum and the bill for 26 episodes enabled petitioners to claim deduction for the entire amount without actual payment in financial year 1983 84 that the entry made for the financial year 1983 84 was beneficial to the petitioners that there was no ceiling on advertising expenditure and it was introduced from 1 april 1984 onwards the plaintiff did not produce the account books to show if the deduction in respect of the entire amount was claimed or not though they were repeatedly called upon to produce them.
the trial court also noticed that in respect of both the advertisements and also in respect of suit serial the petitioners paid to the respondent nos 5 and 6 amount which was to be the maximum amount.
thus the profits or loss was of the respondents and there is element of liability to render account was missing and thus there was no question of respondents being the agents of the petitioners within the meaning of s 182 of the indian contract act.
the trial court summed up the position that the two capacities sponsor and producer can not co exist in one and the same person.
the high court also examined the scope of s 17 of the copyright act and the ingredients thereof not having been established the high court held that no claim could be based on the same and thus agreed with the findings recorded by the trial court and dismissed the appeal.
2 the bills of cost of production.
5 contractd with esquire distributing servicing pvt ltd.
we have carefully considered the contentions urged on behalf of the petitioners.
the matter rests purely upon the appreciation of evidence on record and does not give rise to any question of such importance as to be decided by this court u art 136 of the constitution.
it is clear from the findings recorded by the trial court and the appellate court 1 that the respondents have not undertaken the production of the said serial at the instance of the petitioners.
g k pendharkar the managing director of petitioner no 1 was asked to come to view the format of the programme and the petitioners were not even acquainted with the format of the serial while the respondents had taken concrete steps in this regard prior to the letter dated 11 july 1984.
the trial court thus rightly noted that there was no agency between the parties.
3 that the titles of each episode indicated that respondent no 2 is the producer of the said serial and the petitioners are only the sponsors.
however the titles continued to show mr s s oberoi as the producer of the serial and the petitioners did not withhold payments.
the aggregate amount of rs 76 50 lakhs which was paid to the respondents for 60 episodes is not the amount for cost of production but the fixed price for sponsoring the said serial in order to link up their advertisement with the serial and avail substantial benefit of concessional rate under the scheme envisaged by doordarshan.
the respondents were not liable to render accounts to the petitioners who paid them a fixed sum for sponsoring the programme.
it is clear that the bills that have been raised were only to accommodate the petitioners from the circumstances narrated above.
therefore the view taken by the courts below in this regard appears to be correct.
on appreciation of evidence the courts below have come to the conclusion that the respondents did not make the said serial for valuable consideration at the instance of the petitioners and in view of the findings of fact the claim of copyright or ownership in respect of the serial u s 17b and c would not arise at all.
petition dismissed.
