while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr.
p c the appellant preferred an appeal putting in issue his conviction and sentence.
the criminal reference and the criminal appeal were heard by a division bench of rajasthan high court.
the two learned judges constituting the division bench differed in their opinion.
in the opinion of the other learned judge the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction as recorded by the trial court though the case was not one of those rarest of rare cases as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
in the result the high court has declined the confirmation of death sentence but upheld the conviction on both the charges found proved and dismissed the appeal laying challenge to the conviction subject to modification in the sentence by substituting sentence of life imprisonment for death sentence under section 302 ipc.
kumari s a young child aged about 5 years was last seen at about 4 p m on 18th march 1991 and thereafter she did not return home.
at about 7 a m on 19th march 1991 kishori lal pw4 informed bd pw2 the unfortunate father of s that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
the dead body was sent for post mortem examination which was performed at 9 30 a m on the same day by a medical board of three doctors.
the vaginal injuries clotted blood and injuries to post fornix were indica tive of rape having been committed on the victim.
the clothes were removed from the dead body and seized.
slides of vaginal swab were prepared for cyto chemical analysis for blood and seminal stains.
on 4 4 1991 he was medically examined.
the clothes so recovered were sent to forensic science laboratory.
according to report exbt.
it is not necessary here to extensively deal with the evidence adduced by the prosecution.
suffice it to observe that there is no direct evidence connecting the accused with the offences charged.
we would proceed to examine each of the pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence so as to find out if each one of the circumstantial evidence is proved individually and whether collectively it forges such a chain of incriminating circumstances as would fasten the guilt on the accused beyond by shadow of reasonable doubt.
in dhananjoy chatterjee v state of west bengal 1994 2 scc 220 1994 indlaw sc 1743 wherein one of us dr a s anand j as his lordship then was spoke for the bench.
this court held as under in a case based on circumstantial evidence the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn have not only to be fully established but also that all the circumstances so established should be of a conclusive nature and consistent only with the hypoth esis of the guilt of the accused.
the witness is a child witness of very tender age and examined in the court almost a year after the date of the incident.
we have very carefully read the statement of this witness.
goma to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon has not been examined.
there is something mysterious about the discovery of shalu as a witness to the incident.
s has died.
the third girl who was with s and shalu has not been examined either in the court or during investigation.
the fact remains that the testimony of shalu pw 7 aged 4 years even if taken at its face value does not constitute such a circumstance as to draw an incriminating inference against the accused and connect him with the crime.
he and santosh.
there the accused had enquired from them as to what was the punishment awardable to an offender who was found to have been committed rape on a girl and killed her.
it appears that to begin with the death of s was a blind murder and the police was clue less about the likely offender.
he did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
placed in such situation if a villager unaware of the law happens to ask a person who he feels knows the things better than what he himself does as to what would be the period of incarceration to be suffered by any person for such an offence the impulse for inquiry may be outcome of a feeling of nervousness or mere inquisitiveness such an enquiry is not necessarily suggestive of the working of a criminal mind.
insofar as baniyan is concerned it has no stains of any type on it and therefore its discovery and seizure is meaningless and irrelevant.
sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
in diameter on the appellant s pant and of a dried stain of semen on his under pant were circumstances for too feeble to establish that the appellant raped or murdered the victim.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
false plea of alibi.
the high court has gone completely amiss in holding that a plea of alibi was taken by the accused and that was found to be false.
p c and nowhere suggested during cross examination of prosecution witnesses that at the time of the incident he was at a place wherefrom he could not have reached the place of the offence on the date and at the time of its commission.
this piece of evidence was put to the accused during his statement under section 313 cr.
the accused did not avail the opportunity and stood short by simply stating that the statement of cinema owner was not correct.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
see law lexicon p ramnath iyer second edition p 87.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so called absconding as a piece of incrimi nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
the memo of arrest does not state the arrest of accused having been made at behror.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
though the offence is gruesome and revolts the human conscience but an accused can be convicted only on legal evidence and if only a chain of circumstantial evidence has been so forged as to rule out the possibility of any other reasonable hypothesis excepting the guilt of the accused.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit s case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
there are clueless crimes committed.
the factum of a cognizable crime having been committed is known but neither the identity of the accused is disclosed nor is there any indication available of the witnesses who would be able to furnish useful and relevant evidence.
a vigilant investigating officer well versed with the techniques of the job is in a position to collect the threads of evidence finding out the path which leads to the culprit.
the evidence of investigating officer given in the court should have a rhythm explaining step by step how the investigation proceeded leading to detection of the offender and collection of evidence against him.
this is necessary to exclude the likelihood of any innocent having been picked up and branded as culprit and then the gravity of the offence arousing human sympathy persuading the mind to be carried away by doubtful or dubious circumstances treating them as of beyond doubt evidentiary value.
the appeals are allowed.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
appeals allowed.
