application nos.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
the family of the appellants consists of four brothers their wives children and their widowed mother.
the said nine flats it is said were merged and redesigned for joint living of the entire family.
the appellants herein and the said.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
proceedings before the special court.
three firms of chartered accountants were appointed to prepare statement of accounts and liabilities of each of the appellants herein.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
the appellants herein filed several misc.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
impugned judgment.
by reason of the impugned order dated 17 october 2003 the learned special judge allowed misc.
applications nos.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
the custodian shall permit the members of family of late shri harshad mehta to occupy the flats during the time that the process of the sale of the flats goes on.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
8 and exh.
petition No 41 of 1999.
mr mahesh jethmalani learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in assailing the said judgment of the learned special court inter alia raised the following contentions i some of the entities having their asset base much more than actual liability the impugned judgments are unsustainable.
although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the indian companies act the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable but the same can not be applied in case of individuals.
ii having regard to the fact that only three entitles out of eight were involved in the offences the liability of harshad mehta could not have been clubbed for the purpose of directing attachment and consequent sale of the properties which exclusively belong to them.
vi drawing our attention to a representative chart showing the discrepancies in the accounts of mrs deepika a mehta as shown in a affidavit by the custodian b books of accounts maintained by the appellants and c auditor s report it was submitted that the auditor s report could not have been relied upon.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
central calcutta 1972 3 scc 252 1971 indlaw sc 841.
the affidavit filed by the appellants herein before the special court clearly shows that the liabilities exceed the assets in all cases.
viifurthermore the appellants are also unable to maintain their residential properties as the custodian had to pay a sum of rs 1 06 crores towards the maintenance of the said residential properties.
the act.
2 of section 4 however provides for a hearing as regard correctness or otherwise of the notification notifying a person in this behalf in the event an appropriate application therefor is filed within 30 days of the issuance of such notification.
section 7 confers exclusive jurisdiction upon the special court.
section 9 provides for the procedure and powers of the special court.
the following liabilities shall be paid or discharged in full as far as may be in the order as under a all revenues taxes cesses and rates due from the persons notified by the custodian under sub s 2 of section 3 to the central government or any state government or any local authority b all amounts due from the person so notified by the custodian to any bank or financial institution or mutual fund and c any other liability as may be specified by the special court from time to time.
the act provides for stringent measures.
the provision contained in the act being stringent in nature the purport and intent thereof must be ascertained having regard to the purpose and object it seeks to achieve.
the right of a person notified to file an application or to raise a defence that he is not liable in terms of the provisions of the act or in any event the properties attached should not be sold in discharge of the liabilities can be taken at the initial stage by filing an application in terms of sub s 2 of section 4 of the act.
in terms of the provisions of the act the special court had been conferred a very wide power.
constitutionality and or interpretation of the act came up for consideration before this court in harshad shantilal.
indlaw sc 732 v custodian and others 1998 5 scc 1 wherein the following questions were framed what is meant by revenues taxes cesses and rates due.
do the taxes in cl.
a of section 112 refer only to taxes relating to a specific period or to all taxes due from the notified person.
whether the special court has the power to absolve a notified person from payment of penalty or interest for a period subsequent to the date of his notification section in the alternative is a notified person liable to payment of penalty or interest arising from his inability to pay taxes after his notification.
as regard question No 1 it was held in the present case the words taxes due occur in a section dealing with distribution of property.
at this stage the taxes due have to be actually paid out.
therefore the phrase taxes due can not refer merely to a liability created by the charging section to pay the tax under the relevant law.
in other words taxes as assessed which are presently payable by the notified person are taxes which have to be taken into account under section 112a while distributing the property of the notified person.
the priority however which is given under section 112a to such tax liability only covers such liability for the period 1 4 1991 to 6 6 1992.
this is because the tax liability of a notified person having priority under section 112a is only tax liability pertaining to the statutory period.
the assessee who is before the special court is a person liable to be charged with an offence relating to transactions in securities.
then on account of his property being attached he may not be in a position to deposit the tax assessed or file appeals or further proceedings under the relevant tax law which he could have otherwise done.
the special court may in these cases scale down the tax liability to be paid out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
so far question No 6 is concerned it was held that the remedy of a notified person who is assessed to penalty or interest after the notified period would be entitled to move the appropriate authority under the taxing statute stating if it is open to him under the relevant taxing statute to contend that he was unable to pay his taxes on account of the attachment of all his properties under the special court act and that there is a valid reason why penalty or interest should not be imposed upon him after the date of notification the authorities concerned under the taxing statute can take notice of these circumstances in accordance with law for the purpose of deciding whether penalty or interest can be imposed on the notified person.
the special court is required to consider this question only from the point of view of distributing any part of the surplus assets in the hands of the custodian after the discharge of liabilities sections 112a and 112b.
the special court has full discretion under section 112c to decide whether such claim for penalty or interest should be paid out of any surplus funds in the hands of the custodian.
but the said observation was held to be not laying down a law by a 3 judge bench of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 holding i.
a notified party has the requisite locus to bring the fact to the notice of the special court that certain sum is owing and due to him from a third party whereupon a proceeding can be initiated for recovery thereof by the custodian and consequent application thereof in discharge of the liability of the notified person.
ii sub s.
the provisions of the limitation act 1963 have no application in relation to the proceedings under the said act.
the ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the limitation act was further considered by a division bench of this court in fairgrowth investments ltd v custodian 2004 11 scc 472 2004 indlaw sc 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the limitation act will have no application in relation to an application falling under sub s 2 of section 4 of the act stating it is enough for the purpose of this appeal to hold that section 292 of the limitation act 1963 does not apply to proceedings under section 42 of the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities act 1992.
the appeal is accordingly dismissed but without any order as to costs.
the courts must interpret the law as it reads.
while a purposive interpretation is permissible where two interpretations are possible the purposive interpretation must be such as preserves the constitutionality of the provision.
iwhether the appellants being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could have been proceeded against in terms of the provisions of the act.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
iiiwhether the tax liabilities could not have been held to be due as the order of assessments did not become final and binding.
ivwhether the commercial properties could have been sold in auction.
vwhether the residential properties should have been released from attachment.
the parties have also filed several charts before us showing individual assets and liabilities.
it is not in dispute that the said applications are pending for consideration before the special court.
what would be the effect of the jurisdictional question as regard maintainability of the said application being barred by limitation would indisputably fall for consideration before the special court.
it is no doubt true that the law of limitation bars a remedy but not a right.
lucknow and others.
in construing a special statute providing for limitation consideration of plea of hardship is irrelevant.
the intent and purport of parliament enacting the said act furthermore must be given its full effect.
for the said purpose it is not necessary that they should be accused of commission of an offence as such.
the contention of the appellants to the effect that their properties should have been attached only towards the liabilities incurred by the parties in respect of the transactions made during the statutory period can not be accepted as all the appellants being notified the attachment of the assets would be automatic.
a corporate veil indisputably can be lifted on several grounds.
a transaction of benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 41 of the act as and when such a question is raised the same may have to be dealt with by the special court appropriately.
the said contention must be properly adjudged.
several charts have been filed before us by the appellants to show i liabilities have been exaggerated by the custodian.
credits not given for relief obtained from income tax.
the said letter was replied by the custodian by his letter dated 10 october 2003 wherein none of the queries contained in paragraphs 3 to 8 of the said letter was even attempted to be answered.
the estimated value of the immovable properties of this group is rs 184030038.
v thus taking into consideration the total of the decretal amount and the income tax liability it is clear that the total assets of harshad mehta group would be far below the liabilities.
before us mr desai had filed a chart for showing the same.
the said chart however shows that at least mrs deepika mehta held assets more than her liabilities.
we therefore are of the opinion in the interest of justice that it is necessary to give another opportunity of hearing to the appellants.
it is true that horrendous figures as regard the liabilities of harshad mehta have been projected before us but the same had been shown to be of the entire group.
his death has also forced upon him bankruptcy.
this may be so but then the effect of the rival contentions was required to be gone into by the learned special court.
if those individuals who had no connection with harshad mehta could not have been proceeded against for meeting the liabilities of harshad mehta jointly or severally a clear finding was required to be arrived at.
furthermore the question as regard liability of the parties should have been determined at the stage of section 9 a of the act.
the appellants have contended that the custodian had taken contradictory or inconsistent stand inasmuch as the liabilities of all the entities were treated to be joint liabilities of harshad mehta group.
it had however never been the case of the custodian that the examination of claims of all the notified parties is complete.
the act confers wide power upon the custodian and the learned special court and in that view of the matter having regard to the principles of natural justice the judgment and order of the learned judge special court should have furthermore been supported by sufficient and cogent reasons.
tax liability.
it is not in dispute that the tax liabilities of the appellants individually were assessed on the basis of best judgment assessment.
we may further notice that the learned special court relied upon a decision in custodian v union of india and ors.
petition No 64 of 1998 disposed of on 17th august 2000 wherein allegedly a dichotomy between sale and distribution was sought to be resolved in terms of the decision of this court in harshad shantilal mehta.
this court therefore has laid down a law that mere filing of an appeal is not sufficient particularly when there is no order of stay on recovery has been granted and the demand is outstanding.
in kedarnath jute mfg.
if the orders of assessment have been set aside the liabilities of the appellants have to be worked out on the basis of the new orders of assessment.
so long such orders of assessment are not passed by the competent assessing authorities it can not be said that the appellants are liable to pay a huge amount by way of income tax dues on the basis of such orders of assessment which have since been set aside.
a chart has been annexed to the additional written submissions filed by mr desai which originated from a letter dated 9th december 2005 issued by the office of the commissioner of income tax showing the current status of the liabilities of the individual members of the harshad mehta group in the following terms i ashwin mehta rs 1396 crores ii.
deepika mehta rs 120 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
it exceeds rs 63 crores.
late harshad mehta rs 11829 crores.
iv jyoti mehta rs 1457 crores.
v hitesh mehta rs 73 crores vi.
it exceeds rs 35 crores vii.
sudhir mehta rs 339 crores viii.
2 7 crores.
in any view of the matter the learned judge special court having not dealt with the question as regard the mode and manner of disbursements of the amount so far as the tax liabilities of the appellants are concerned elaborately the same requires fresh determination in the light of the decision of this court in harshad shantilal mehta.
in fact the appellants have brought on records various orders passed by income tax appellate authorities to show that the demands of the revenue have been set aside.
furthermore the orders of the appellate authority have been passed during pendency of this appeal.
this court it is trite can take into consideration the subsequent events.
such subsequent events could also be taken into consideration for the purpose of review.
it is furthermore not in dispute that third party rights have since been created by reason of sale of a large number of commercial properties.
the said order however was modified and clarified by an order dated 5th may 2004 that the same shall not apply to the sale of commercial properties in view of the order of the learned judge special court dated 17th october 2003 wherein it was pointed out that the notified parties did not dispute the commercial properties being put to sale by the custodian.
in the former event even if such a decree is set aside the interest of the bona fide purchaser in an auction sale is saved.
smt and another 1994 2 scc 368 1994 indlaw sc 1613.
in janak raj v gurdial singh and anr.
in padanathil ruqmini amma v p k abdulla 1996 7 scc 668 1996 indlaw sc 3096 this court making a distinction between decree holder auction purchaser himself and a third party bona fide purchaser in an auction sale observed the ratio behind this distinction between a sale to a decree holder and a sale to a stranger is that the court as a matter of policy will protect honest outsider purchasers at sales held in the execution of its decrees although the sales may be subsequently set aside when such purchasers are not parties to the suit.
the same consideration does not apply when the decree holder is himself the purchaser and the decree in his favour is set aside.
we therefore do not interfere with that part of the order whereby and wherewith the auction sale as regard commercial properties had been directed by the learned judge special court.
the learned judge special court may therefore proceed to pass an appropriate order as regard confirmation of the sale of such properties.
in these appeals we are concerned with sale of eight residential flats in a building known as madhuli.
No 202.
No 681 of 2004.
admittedly the flats have been sold subject to the result of these appeals.
the purchasers have also filed applications for their impleadment in these appeals.
the appellants shall file their objections to the said report if any within ten days thereafter.
a reply and or rejoinder thereto shall be filed within one week from the date of the receipt of the copy of the objection.
the parties shall file their respective documents within one week thereafter.
the learned judge special court shall take up the matter relating to confirmation of the auction sale in respect of the commercial properties immediately and pass an appropriate order thereupon within four weeks from the date of receipt of copy of this order.
if in the meanwhile orders of assessment are passed by the income tax authorities the custodian shall be at liberty to bring the same to the notice of the learned special court which shall also be taken into consideration by the learned judge special court.
with the aforementioned observations and directions these appeals are allowed.
appeals allowed.
