he was also to be the chairman of the departmental promotion committee for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
the commissioner allegedly made certain appointments in the posts of mandols process servers and zilladars which was not within the knowledge of the state.
the said appointments were made on temporary basis.
imphal the 12th jan.
1998 sub submission of report.
with reference to the u o letter no 21593 comr pt.
i therefore deny making of such appointments.
on the other hand md.
it is for this reason i have been writing to all the deputy commissioners in the districts even by sending w t messages clarifying the actual position of making any appointment of revenue field staff.
submitted for information and consideration.
sd 12198 annayok j tayeng.
govt of manipur minister revenue.
temp i please read as august97 in place of october97 occurring in the 4th line of this government order no 21593 comrev.
temp i dated 17 2 1998.
in civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005the respondents were appointed on ad hoc basis for a period of six months.
their appointments were also cancelled on similar grounds.
the respondents herein filed writ petitions before the high court on 4 06 1998 questioning the said order of cancellation of their appointments.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
4 that after my retirement some of the writ petitioners civil rule no 568 of 1998came to me and show copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit of the respondent no 12 and 3 i have gone through the copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit and annexures thereto.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
dated 11 9 97 annexure a2 to the writ petition appointing 4 persons to the post of mandol are perused by me minutely.
i submit that these appointment orders annexures a1 and a2 bear my signature initial and appear to have been issued under my signature.
chief election commissioner delhi and ors air 1978 sc 851 1977 indlaw sc 53.
so far as the matter relating to civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005 is concerned it was directed that as the appointment of the respondents were made for a period of six months the employees were only entitled to the salary for the said period.
mr jaideep gupta learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants would submit that the high court went wrong in passing the impugned judgment insofar as it failed to take into consideration that in a case of this nature it was not necessary to comply with the principles of natural justice.
they were not issued by any authority competent therefor.
any action which had not been taken by an authority competent therefor and in complete violation of the constitutional and legal framework would not be binding on the state.
it was thus for them to establish existence of a legal right in their favour and a corresponding legal duty in the respondents to continue to be employed.
the commissioner furthermore was not the appointing authority.
he was only a cadre controlling authority.
the term dpc would ordinarily mean the departmental promotion committee.
even assuming that dpc would mean selection committee there is noting on record to show who were its members and how and at whose instance it was constituted.
the commissioner as noticed hereinbefore was the chairman of the dpc how the matter was referred to the dpc has not been disclosed.
even the affidavit affirmed by shri tayeng before the high court in this behalf is silent.
the appointing authority in absence of any delegation of power having been made in that behalf was the state government.
the government order dated 12 01 1998 did not delegate the power of appointment to the commissioner.
in a case of this nature where the facts are admitted the principles of natural justice were not required to be complied with particularly when the same would result in futility.
we as noticed hereinbefore do not know as to under what circumstances the orders of appointments were issued.
the said decision is not an authority for the proposition that the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with in all situations.
in kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 suprathis court was dealing with a question in regard to continuance of the law officers.
it is for this reason that we base our decision on the ground that independent of any statutory right available to the appointees and assuming for the purpose of this case that the rights flow only from the contract of appointment the impugned circular issued in exercise of the executive power of the state must satisfy art 14 of the constitution and if it is shown to be arbitrary it must be struck down.
this too is relevant for deciding the question of arbitrariness alleged in the present case.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
this distinction between the state and a private individual in the field of contract has to be borne in the mind.
we may on the other hand notice that kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 supra has been distinguished by this court in state of u p and others v u p state law officers association and others 1994 2 scc 204 1994 indlaw sc 1289 stating the reliance placed by the respondents in this behalf on shrilekha vidyarthi v state of u p 1990 indlaw sc 463 is misplaced for the obvious reason that the decision relates to the appointment of the district government counsel and the additional assistant district government counsel who are the law officers appointed by the state government to conduct civil criminal and revenue cases in any court other than the high court.
their appointment is in the first instance for one year.
the renewal of their further term again depends upon the quality of work and conduct capacity as a lawyer professional conduct public reputation in general and character and integrity as certified by the district magistrate and the district judge.
his work is also subject to strict supervision.
the shortcomings in the work are required to be brought to the notice of the legal remembrancer.
suprathis court held that whoever holds civil posts would be entitled to protection of their services in terms of cl 2 of art 309 of the constitution of india in the event any disciplinary action is taken against them stating the underlying idea obviously is that a provision like this will ensure to them a certain amount of security of tenure.
the words dismissed removed and reduced in rank have been used.
it has been said in jayanti prasad v state of uttar pradesh 1951 indlaw all 27 that these are technical words used in cases in which a persons services are terminated by way of punishment.
foulkes craig and others say that the court can not prejudge what is to be decided by the decision making authority de smith says courts have not yet committed themselves to any one view though discretion is always with the court.
we may however point out that even in cases where the facts are not all admitted or beyond dispute there is a considerable unanimity that the courts can in exercise of their discretion refuse certiorari prohibition mandamus or injunction even though natural justice is not followed.
in the former case it can be waived while in the case of the latter it can not be waived.
if such appointment orders are a nullity the question of observance of principles of natural justice would not arise.
in bar council of india v high court of kerala 2004 6 scc 311 2004 indlaw sc 340it was stated principles of natural justice however cannot be stretched too far.
the action of a statutory authority as is well known must be judged on the basis of the norms set up by it and on the basis of the reasons assigned therefor.
the same can not be supplemented by fresh reasons in the shape of affidavit or otherwise.
for the reasons aforementioned the impugned judgments can not be sustained.
they are set aside accordingly.
the appeals are allowed.
no costs.
appeal allowed.
