before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of plot no 178 admeasuring 1067 sq m.
he used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
with a view to give effect to the provisions of the act and the rules framed thereunder proceedings were initiated for allotment of the said land in terms of the act 20 of the land was taken over without payment of any compensation.
in respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re allotment of the land despite a public notice the appellant did not file any objection.
he did not take any part in the proceedings therefor.
and the said land is now vested in the municipal corporation from 1 7 1999and is of the ownership of the municipal corporation.
thereafter the notice below s 67 for the change in occupation was issued on 15 1 2000 to you.
in spite of this you have not handed over the possession.
therefore as per the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 rule 33 the undersigned in exercise of powers conferred below s 681 and 82 of the bombay provincial municipalities act and below the s 68 notice under the gujarat town planning and urban development act this is to inform you that as shown in the sketch on the reverse the premises marked should be vacated within 7 days from receipt of the notice and had over the possession to the surat municipal corporation.
the validity and or legality of the said notice was questioned by the appellant by filing a writ petition in the high court of gujarat inter alia contending that the purported final allotment of plot no 165 in favour of the respondent no 3 and allotment of final plot no 157 in favour of the respondent no 4 were made without issuing any notice as envisaged u ss 52 and 53 of the act.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
at least on ground that the tenant is in occupation it would not be a case for interference with the scheme which is sanctioned and made a part of the statute.
a division bench of the high court dismissed an intra court appeal preferred thereagainst.
mr u u lalit learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant in support of this appeal inter alia would submit i.
the provisions of ss 52 and 81 being imperative in character no acquisition of land is permissible without service of any notice upon the persons interested which would include a tenant in occupation and carrying on business thereon.
the tenant s interest being distinct and separate could not have been held to be merged with the interest of the landlord either for the purpose of allotment of a final plot or otherwise in favour of the landlord.
prashant g desai learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no 1on the other hand would submit.
the scheme in terms of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act having become a part of the act validity thereof can not be questioned at this stage as modification of the scheme if any will have to undergo the entire process once over again which is not contemplated under the act.
the act was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to the making and execution of development plans and town planning schemes in the state of gujarat.
s 45 provides for reconstitution of the plots sub s 2.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
s 52 of the act provides for the contents of preliminary and final scheme.
on the day on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
shall in accordance with the prescribed procedure be summarily evicted by the appropriate authority.
such notice shall also be posted at the officer of the town planning officer and of the appropriate authority and the substance of such notice shall be pasted at convenient places in the said locality.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
if he re occupies the land after eviction.
the appropriate authority shall prosecute him under s 188 of the indian penal code.
for short the bombay rules are in pari materia with the rules.
rules 26 of the rules do not contemplate service of individual notice.
any person affected by the proposal of the town planning scheme is entitled to inspect the scheme in the office where arrangements for explaining the scheme proposals are made.
it furthermore provides that any person entitled to claim damages in terms of s 82 of the act should communicate the details of his claim to the town planning officer.
s 81 of the act enables the state to transfer of right from original to final plot or extinction of such right.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
we may also take notice of the decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji.
in jaswantsingh mathurasingh1991 indlaw sc 972 suprait was reiterated that a tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette.
amended rules are in pari materia with rule 26 of the rules.
they were separated not only by a road but also by various other plots.
the draft scheme was approved 867 sq m of land had been acquired for public purpose out of the said plot no 178 while the proceedings relating to allotment of final plot were in progress he even did not file any objection thereto.
if he intended to claim any interest in a portion of plot no 178 either for the purpose of obtaining compensation for acquisition of a part of the land or to continue to have possession over 200 sq m of land in plot no 178it was obligatory on his part to take part in the proceedings.
whether irrespective of rule 26 of the rules which prescribes for issuance of a general public notice any special notice upon the appellant was required to be served by the state or by the authority in our opinion cannot be gone into by us in these proceedings for the first time.
validity of rule 26 of the rules had never been questioned.
we would however assume that it was obligatory on the part of the state to serve a special notice upon the appellant.
the bangalore development authority act1976 provides that every person whose name appears in the assessment list or land revenue records shall be served with notice see sureshchandra c mehta v state of karnataka and others 1994 supp 2 scc 511 1993 indlaw sc 538.
in west bengal housing board etc v.
every step taken by the state does not involve application of the doctrine of eminent domain.
it accepted that the state had a right to do so.
existence of a public purpose and increase in the valuation of the property was admitted.
it was on that legal principle this court in state of gujarat v shantilal mangaldas ors 1969 3 scr 341 1969 indlaw sc.
what would be the quantum of payment of compensation therefor is also provided in s 82 of the act.
ors v.
see also bhikhubhai vithlabhai patel ors v.
it was a dispute between two private parties as regards the right to obtain final allotment the principles underlying the same are not in dispute.
but we intend to emphasise that he has lost his right to enforce the same in a public law forum.
he has no enforceable claim against the state at this juncture.
he may pursue his claim only against the respondent no 4 in an appropriate proceedings wherein for certain purposes the state or the authorities may also be impleaded as a party.
it is not in dispute that a appellant although filed an objection with regard to the draft scheme did not choose to pursue it.
b he did not file objections for re allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the act.
it has been noticed by us hereinbefore that under rule 26 of the rules applicable in the instant case as distinguished from the bombay rules wherein special notice is requiredno special notice is mandatorily required to be served.
in halsbury s laws of england volume 1624th edition para 907it is stated the expression waiver may in law bear different meanings.
the primary meaning has been said to be the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted and is either express or implied from conduct.
as early as 1957the concept of waiver was articulated in a case involving the late assertion of a claim regarding improper constitution of a tribunal in manak lal v dr prem chand air 1957 sc 425 1957 indlaw sc 159 in the following terms.
it is true that waiver can not always and in every case be inferred merely from the failure of the party to take the objection.
1861 30 beav 65 54 e r 813817 waiver or acquiescence like election presupposes that the person to be bound is fully cognizant of his rights and that being so he neglects to enforce them or chooses one benefit instead of another either but not both of which he might claim.
in the director of inspection of income tax investigationnew delhi and another v pooran mal sons and another 1975 4 scc 568 1974 indlaw sc 354 the issue was regarding waiver of benefits under a statute of limitation.
in that case an applicant to bring lands under the real property act filed his case in court under section 21more than three months after a caveat had been lodged and thereafter obtained an order that the caveator should file her case which she accordingly did.
they referred with approval to the decision in phillips v martin where the chief justice said here there is abundant evidence of waiver and it is quite clear that a man may by his conduct waive a provision of an act of parliament intended for his benefit.
applying the above principles to the present case it must be held that the benefit of notice provided under the act and rules being for the benefit of the appellant in which no public interests are involved he has waived the same.
significantly a similar conclusion was reached in the case of krishna bahadur v purna theatre 2004 8 scc 229 2004.
whenever waiver is pleaded it is for the party pleading the same to show that an agreement waiving the right in consideration of some compromise came into being.
statutory right however may also be waived by his conduct.
emphasis supplied see also bank of india v o p swarnakar 2003 2 scc 721 2002 indlaw sc 1562.
in ramdev food products pvt.
the answer to the said question must be rendered in the negative.
it is well settled that what can not be done directly can not be done indirectly.
a person who is entitled to rely on a stipulation existing for his benefit alone in a contract or of a statutory provision may waive it and allow the contract or transaction to proceed as though the stipulation or provision did not exist.
such conduct precludes and operates as estoppel against him with respect to asserting a right over a portion of the acquired land in a situation where the scheme in question has attained finality following as a result of the appellant s inaction.
lalit submits that his client is ready and willing to pay some reasonable amount to the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been finally allotted.
issuance of any such direction in our opinion is legally impermissible.
no costs.
