an fir was registered on 23 3 1996 on the statement of one prakashi devi.
she stated that on the night of 2223 3 1996while.
she and her daughter in law sheela devi were sleeping in her house around 11 30 pm the appellant jumped over the front wall of her house and broke the bulbs and ran away that at that time no male member was present in the house except the children.
when the said charged was read over and explained to the appellant he pleaded not guilty to the said charge and claimed trial.
in her cross examination prakashi devi stated that she has five sons that only her husband and one son named mahavir were staying with her that the other four sons were married and were not staying with her that on that night her husband was away in the fields and her son mahavir was also not present in the house.
she also admitted that the appellant did not touch her nor teased her nor abused her.
both pw1 and pw2 stated that the house of the accused was at a distance of 15 16 houses from the house of prakashi devi that the accused had never come into their house earlier that their family and the accused were not on visiting terms with each other even during functions marriages or death though they were on visiting terms with others in the village.
pw 2 also stated that she did not know the particulars of the dispute between the accused and her in laws.
the investigating officer was examined as pw 3 the accused examined a witness ex sarpanch of the village as dw 1 and he stated that there was a quarrel between the accused and complainant s son surinder about a water course and subsequently he came to know that the quarrel was converted into a false case against the accused by registering a false allegation that the accused had outraged the modesty of a woman.
the learned magistrate by judgment dated 2 2 2001held the accused guilty of offences u ss 452 and 354 cr.
he contended that as the charge levelled against him was not proved and as he was not required to defend himself against a charge that he assaulted and outraged the modesty of sheela devi he ought to have been acquitted.
this was negatived by the appellate court and high court holding that an accused can not take advantage of a technical defect in framing the charge.
sub s 1 thereof provides that no finding sentence or order of a court of competent jurisdiction shall be deemed invalid merely on the ground that no charge was framed or on the ground of any error omission or irregularity in the charge including any misjoinder of charge unless in the opinion of the court of appeal confirmation or revision a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby.
the object of the code is to ensure that an accused person gets a full and fair trial along certain well established and well understood lines that accord with our notions of natural justice.
now here as in all procedural laws certain things are regarded as vital.
others are not vital and whatever the irregularity they can be cured and in that event the conviction must stand unless the court is satisfied that there was prejudice.
this court then examined the question as to when a procedure adopted could be said to have worked actual injustice to the accused and held except where there is something so vital as to cut at the root of jurisdiction or so abhorrent to what one might term natural justice the matter resolves itself to a question of prejudice.
these go to the foundations of natural justice and would be struck down as illegal forthwith.
other violations will not be so obvious and it may be possible to show that having regard to all that occurred no prejudice was occasioned or that there was no reasonable probability of prejudice.
in still another class of case the matter may be so near the border line that very slight evidence of a reasonable possibility of prejudice would swing the balance in favour of the accused.
the code is emphatic that whatever the irregularity it is not to be regarded as fatal unless there is prejudice.
it is the substance that we must seek.
courts have to administer justice and justice includes the punishment of guilt just as much as the protection of innocence.
neither can be done if the shadow is mistaken for the substance and the goal is lost in a labyrinth of unsubstantial technicalities.
the same broad principles of justice and fair play must be brought to bear when determining a matter of prejudice as in adjudging guilt.
in adjudging the question of prejudice the fact that the absence of a charge or a substantial mistake in it is a serious lacuna will naturally operate to the benefit of the accused and if there is any reasonable and substantial doubt about whether he was or was reasonably likely to have been misled in the circumstances of any particular case he is as much entitled to the benefit of it here as elsewhere but if on a careful consideration of all the facts prejudice or a reasonable and substantial likelihood of it is not disclosed the conviction must stand also it will always be material to consider whether objection to the nature of the charge or a total want of one was taken at an early stage.
in shamnsaheb m multtani vs state of karnataka 2001 2 scc 577.
2001 indlaw sc 19904this court considered the meaning of the expression failure of justice occurring in s 464 of cr.
pc this court held thus the crux of the matter is this would there be occasion for a failure of justice by adopting such a course as to convict an accused of the offence under section 304 b ipc when all the ingredients necessary for the said offence have come out in evidence although he was not charged with the said offence.
however if the aspect is of such a nature that non explanation of it has contributed to penalizing an individual the court should say that since he was not given the opportunity to explain that aspect there was failure of justice on account of non compliance with the principle of natural justice.
6 scc 554 1998 indlaw sc 1286dalbir singh v state of up 2004 5 scc 334 2004 indlaw sc 247dumpala chandra reddy vs nimakayala bali reddy 2008.
in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt the courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to the technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
the respondent relied upon the decision of this court in state of himachal pradesh v geeta ram 2000 7 scc 452 2000 indlaw sc 408 in that case.
this court reversed the decision of the high court on the ground that a special court under the act being a sessions court it continued to have jurisdiction to try the case for the offence u s 376.
when the accused is charged with having entered the house of prakashi devi and assaulted the said prakashi devi with intent to outrage her modesty and when the accused defended himself in regard to the said charge and concentrated on proving that the said charges were not true he can not be convicted for having assaulted and outraging the modesty of someone else namely sheela devi.
an accused can not be punished for committing an offence against y when he is charged with having committed the offence against x and the entire defence of the accused was with reference to charge of having committed offence against x.
illustration e u s 215 of the code as contrasted from illustration d under that section throws some light on this issue.
there was a material error in the charge as it violated the requirement of sub s 1 of s 212 of the code that the charge shall contain particulars as to the person against whom the offence was committed.
in view of the specific charge the accused concentrated on showing that the charge was false.
the appeal is therefore allowed the conviction of the accused is set aside and the matter is remitted to the trial court with a direction for a new trial after framing a charge by substituting the words her daughter in law sheela devi for the words abovenamed prakashi deviin the second part of the charge.
appeal allowed.
