accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
it was an arranged marriage.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
they even refused to send her to her parental house.
she was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected by the accused persons.
on 15th february2003at about 11 a m the deceased committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused.
however upon medical examination by the doctor she was declared brought dead.
thereupon the body was sent for postmortem examination through constable p venkateswara reddy lw 15 lw 17p devdass also took photographs of the scene 3 lw 13dr.
m madhusudana reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia as a result of hanging.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m.
the high court of andhra pradesh vide its judgment dated 26th october2006while allowing the appeal in part convicted accused nos 1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences however acquitted accused no 3namely pathan khadar basha.
the sentence awarded by the trial court was confirmed.
this gave rise to filing of the present appeals.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
this witness has further specifically stated that the said accused treated his daughter in a proper manner for about two months.
in the marriage he had also given a gold chain a double bed an iron safe and other items.
he had called his son in law accused no 1to his house as per custom at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
according to this witness also in the beginning they were happy however after some time she used to hear some quarrel between the deceased and the accused persons.
in fact there is no dispute to the fact that the deceased died of hanging.
the period intervening between the marriage and the death of the deceased is very small.
they were married in the year 2002 and she committed suicide by hanging on 15th.
in the case of biswajit halder alias babu halder and others v state of w b 2008 1 scc 202 2007 indlaw sc 304the court stated the ingredients of this provision as follows 10 the basic ingredients to attract the provisions of section 304 b are as follows.
12 explanation appended to section.
in the case of ashok kumar v state of haryana 2010 12 scc 350 2010 indlaw sc 502this court explained these terms in some elucidation and the effect of the deeming fiction appearing in the section as follows 11 the appellant was charged with an offence under section 304 b of the code.
it is the first criteria which the prosecution must prove.
the explanation to this section requires that the expression dowry shall have the same meaning as in s 2 of the act.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
this clearly shows the intent of the legislature that these expressions are of wide meaning and scope.
the expression in connection with the marriage even in common parlance and on its plain language has to be understood generally.
at this stage it will be appropriate to refer to certain examples showing what has and has not been treated by the courts as dowry.
this court in ran singh v state of haryana2008 4 scc 700 2008 indlaw sc 120 held that the payments which are customary payments for example given at the time of birth of a child or other ceremonies as are prevalent in the society or families to the marriage would not be covered under the expression dowry.
this court held that the word dowry should be any property or valuable given or agreed to be given in connection with the marriage.
the customary payments in connection with birth of a child or other ceremonies are not covered within the ambit of the word dowry.
the definition of dowry is not restricted to agreement or demand for payment of dowry before and at the time of marriage but even include subsequent demands was the dictum of this court in state of a p v.
raj gopal asawa20044 scc 470 2004 indlaw sc 205.
we have examined the provisions of s 2 of the act in a very limited sphere to deal with the contentions raised in regard to the applicability of the provisions of section 304 b of the code.
we have already referred to the provisions of section 304 b of the code and the most significant expression used in the section is soon before her death.
but even the rule of strict construction requires that the provisions have to be read in conjunction with other relevant provisions and scheme of the act.
this court in tarsem singh v state of punjab2008.
in other words there should be a reasonable if not direct nexus between her death and the dowryrelated cruelty or harassment inflicted on her.
however the expression would normally imply that there has to be reasonable time gap between t he cruelty inflicted and the death in question.
however there must be existence of proximate link between the acts of cruelty along with the demand of dowry and the death of the victim.
for want of any specific period the concept of reasonable period would be applicable.
such demand or harassment may not strictly and squarely fall within the scope of these provisions unless definite evidence was led to show to the contrary.
these matters of course will have to be examined on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
the cruelty and harassment by the husband or any relative could be directly relatable to or in connection with any demand for dowry.
the expression demand for dowry will have to be construed ejusdem generis to the word immediately preceding this expression.
the court can not ignore one of the cardinal principles of criminal jurisprudence that a suspect in the indian law is entitled to the protection of art 20 of the constitution of india as well as has a presumption of innocence in his favour.
in other words the rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved guilty.
the concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to the criminal jurisprudence.
in contradistinction to this aspect the legislature has applied the concept of deeming fiction to the provisions of section 304 b where other ingredients of section 304 b are satisfied in that event the husband or all relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death.
in other words the offence shall be deemed to have been committed by fiction of law.
once the prosecution proves its case with regard to the basic ingredients of section 304 b the court will presume by deemed fiction of law that the husband or the relatives complained of has caused her death.
such a presumption can be drawn by the court keeping in view the evidence produced by the prosecution in support of the substantive charge under section 304 b of the code.
it is for the accused to show that the death of the deceased did not result from any cruelty or demand of dowry by the accused persons.
the accused did not care to explain as to how the death of his wife occurred.
denial can not be treated to be the discharge of onus.
it was expected of the accused to explain as to how and why his wife died as well as his conduct immediately prior and subsequent to the death of the deceased.
there being no rebuttal thereto there is no occasion to interfere in the judgments of the courts under appeal.
while we see no reason to differ with the concurrent findings recorded by the trial court and the high court we do see some substance in the argument raised on behalf of the appellants that keeping in view the prosecution evidence the attendant circumstances the age of the accused and the fact that they have already being in jail for a considerable period the court may take lenient view as far as the quantum of sentence is concerned.
consequently we award ten years rigorous imprisonment to the appellants.
the appeals are partially accepted to the extent afore indicated.
appeals partly allowed.
