shashi tripathi accused no 1 has filed criminal appeal arising out of special leave petition criminal no 3737 of 2014.
pw 1 dr.
on 25 11 2003when pw 1 dr.
the crime was registered.
he deposed in court that on 25 11 2003when he returned home he found servant anil kumar pw 21 was weeping.
after registration of the crime inquest was conducted over the dead body of bhavna on 26 11 2003 post mortem was conducted by dr naresh tiwari and dr m deodhar who gave their report which is marked as exhibit p18 spot map was prepared by the inquiry officer io bloodstained cloth of accused shashi tripathi was taken into possession along with broken bangles bloodstained cement mortar and plain cement mortar were also taken into possession.
the accused raju.
devendra choubey was taken into custody on 22 12 2003 and a suzuki motorcycle was also taken into possession.
a test identification was conducted by the executive magistrate in the sub jail bemetara on 13 12 2003 a similar identification parade of raju.
devendra choubey was conducted on 26 12 2003 after his arrest.
no defence witness was examined after the statements of the accused were recorded u s 313 of the criminal procedure code1973.
bhavna was married to her step son jitendra kumar in july2003 shashi tripathi used to be annoyed with bhavna tripathi on account of some domestic dispute.
bhavna was murdered on 25 11 2003 at about 1830 hours in the house where she resided with shashi tripathi.
3  cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3  cm.
x  cm x 1 cm and 14 incised wound over left side of neck on anterior triangle of size 2 cm.
x 1  cm.
incised wound was also present on the right lobe of size 3 cm x 13 cm x 3 cm.
liver kidney and spleen were pale.
he lived in the house of shashi didi.
she resided with shashi didi.
he referred to bhavna as bhabhi.
the incident occurred in the courtyard and shashi didi was present in the passage.
thereafter all the three accused fled from there.
shashi didi thereafter started shouting.
then she lay down on the courtyard near bhavna bhabhi.
it is obvious that accused nos 2 and 4 did not enter the house to commit a robbery and had a single mission namely to kill bhavana.
there is no evidence that they had any previous animosity with the deceased and appeared to have acted as contract killers.
the credibility of the evidence of anil kumar pw 21 was attacked by the learned counsel for the appellants who submitted that the boy is a tutored witness who has been influenced by the police with whom he spent a lot of time.
in fact he even came to the court in the company of a police constable after being served summons at allahabad.
the learned counsel submitted that the evidence of a child witness must be carefully scrutinized before acceptance since a child can be easy prey for tutoring and the court must insist on corroboration from other evidence.
he had no grouse against her neither any ulterior motive in identifying the accused who were not acquainted to him.
the incident occurred within the four walls of the house of the accused shashi tripathi and the only witness was the boy anil.
mahesh and chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003their identification parade was conducted on 13 12 2003 within a fortnight or so.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
the learned counsel for the appellants relied upon the judgment of this court in budhsen and anr.
state of u p 1970 2 scc 128 1970 indlaw sc 136 where this court made the following observations 7 now facts which establish the identity of an accused person are relevant u s 9 of the indian evidence act.
there may however be exceptions to this general rule when for example the court is impressed by a particular witness on whose testimony it can safely rely without such or other corroboration.
this serves to satisfy the investigating officers of the bona fides of the prosecution witnesses and also to furnish evidence to corroborate their testimony in court.
identification proceedings in their legal effect amount simply to this that certain persons are brought to jail or some other place and make statements either express or implied that certain individuals whom they point out are persons whom they recognise as having been concerned in the crime.
they do not constitute substantive evidence.
it is for this reason that the identification parades in this case seem to have been held under the supervision of a magistrate.
those proceeding should not make it impossible for the identifiers who after all have as a rule only fleeting glimpses of the person they are supposed to identify.
generally speaking the magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
the identification to be of value should also be held without much delay.
we however do not see how the observations help the appellants.
in the present case the child witness has been found to be reliable.
state of andhra pradesh air 1983.
suffice it to say that those cases do not create any doubt as regards the conviction in this case.
state of haryana air 1999 sc 1083 1999 indlaw sc 391 and ramashish yadav vs.
state of bihar 1999 8 scc 555 1999 indlaw sc 693.
it is settled law that common intention and conspiracy are matters of inference and if while drawing an inference any benefit of doubt creeps in it must go to the accused vide baliya vs.
state of m p 2012.
on a careful conspectus of the facts and the law we are of the view that the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of mahesh beyond reasonable doubt.
he was merely seen by the witness as standing outside the house when the witness came home.
mahesh did not even act as a guard he did not prevent anil kumar pw 21 from entering the house.
there is no reference to a third person in the fir no evidence that he came with the other accused or left with them.
