this appeal is by special leave against the judgment of the high court of punjab and haryana confirming the conviction of the accused under section 51c of the prevention of corruption act 1947 as also the sentence awarded by the sessions judge of one year s rigorous imprisonment and a fine of rs 2500 in default six months rigorous imprisonment.
the facts of the case in brief are that in view of the chinese invasion air field at sirsa required to be extended for which purpose the ministry of defence govt.
of india took steps to acquire some lands of agriculturists pursuant to which a notification dated november 27 1962 was issued under section 4 of the land acquisition act 1894 for acquiring 51 79 acres of land situated in the state of ahmedpur.
on the next day another notification was issued under section 6 of the land acquisition act on november 28 1962 and in view of the emergency action under section 17 was taken for obtaining possession of the land with a view to its development.
the lands which were acquired belonged to several land holders including moti ram and p w 12 kewal chand.
the collector gave his award on 26 2 63 in respect of these lands which actually measured 49 47 acres at rs 1350 per acre amounting to rs 66784 50 np.
apart from this amount compensation was also awarded for standing crop amounting to rs 11073 13.
before the land was actually acquired the appellant who was a major in the military engineering service was working as a garrison engineer and was inching of the extension.
he had in anticipation of acquisition and execution of the work appointed a b ranadive p w 14 as assistant garrison engineer who was to be responsible for all the matters connected with the acquisition of land demarcation of boundaries as an engineer inching for execution of the contract and responsible for the maintenance of the air field.
the work of the extension of aerodynamic was entrusted to one telu ram p w 8 contractor with whom the trusted to m e s department entered into an agreement on december 3 1962.
this agreement was signed both by the appellant and p w 14.
the work according to that agreement was to be done in 2 phases first phase was to commence on 10th january 1963 and was to be completed by 9th october 1963.
after the completion of the first phase the second phase was to start on 10th october 1963 and completed by 9th may 1964.
pursuant to this agreement it is said that symbolic possession of the land which was acquired was taken over by the tehsildar on 1st february 1963 after which at any rate it appears from exhibit p 24 that actual possession of this land was handed over by the said tehsildar on 13th.
february 1963 to the appellant.
the receipt ex.
from this receipt it is evident that possession of 50 12 acres was handed over by the tehsildar and taken over by the appellant and the military estate officer sukhchain lal jain.
the case of the prosecution initially was that after the land so acquired with the standing crop was taken possession of by the appellant.
he sold the crop to moti ram and kewal chand for rs 2500 and facilitated the cutting and taking away of the crop by postponing the handing over of the possession to the contractor till the 5th april 1963 and misappropriated the money.
in respect of this allegation the first information report exhibit p 29 was issued on 14 1 64 in which the following statement is relevant.
he thus.
the facts disclose the commission of the offence of criminal misconduct as defined in section 51d read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act 1947 by major som nath accused.
a chargesheet was filed against the appellant under section 5 1 c and 5 1 d read with 5 2 of the prevention of corruption act on 5 8 1966 after obtaining sanction from the govt.
the special judge acquitted the appellant of the second charge namely that being a public servant he had by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as a public servant obtained for himself a sum of rs 2500 from moti ram of sirsa for cutting the crops and thereby committed offence under section 51d punishable under section 52.
against that conviction and sentence he appealed to the high court which maintained the conviction and sentence.
it was also contended that the high court had not considered the contradictions in the earlier statement made by some of the witnesses to the military authorities and that it relied on many of the documents for affirming the conviction of the appellant without their actually being put to him under section 342.
that the sanction given by the govt.
of india does not cover the trial of the charge under section 51c of the prevention of corruption act.
for a sanction to be valid it must be established that the sanction was given in respect of the facts constituting the offence with which the accused is proposed to be charged.
sd a p veera raghavan.
under that clause sanction has to be given to a prosecution for the contravention of any of the provision of the order.
in the present case there is nothing on the face of the sanction and no extraneous evidence to show that the sanctioning authority knew the facts alleged to constitute a breach of the order and the sanction is invalid.
the case of jaswant singh v the state of puniab.
in that case sanction was given under section 6 of the prevention of corruption act 47 for the prosecution of the appellant for having received illegal gratification from one pal singh.
while in appeal the high court held that the appellant could neither be tried nor convicted of the offence under 51a as no sanction had been given in respect of it but upheld the conviction under section 51d for which sanction had been given.
in the present case the sanction strictly construed indicates the consideration by the sanctioning authority of the facts relating to the receiving of the illegal gratification from pal singh and therefore the appellant could only be validly tried for that offence.
section 61 of the act bars the jurisdiction of the court to take cognizance of an offence for which previous sanction is required and has not been given.
the prosecution for offence under section 51d therefore is not barred because the proceedings are not without previous sanction which was validly given for the offence of receiving a bribe from pal singh but the offence of habitually receiving illegal gratification could not be taken cognizance of and the prosecution and trial for that offence was void for want of sanction which is a condition precedent for the courts taking cognizance of the offence alleged to be committed and therefore the high court has rightly set aside the conviction for that offence.
it has been contended firstly that the high court was in error in relying on certain evidence for convicting the accused which was not put to him.
it is not the case of the appellant that acquisition of the land on which the crop was standing had taken place nor could possession of it been handed over to him because he denies that there was any crop on the land when the possession of the land was handed over to him.
my dear mr nagpal i am writing to you with regard to.
as you know.
i therefore request you to issue suitable instructions to your staff so that all the relevant papers may be suitably prepared.
this letter clearly indicates that some excavation was being done as otherwise there is no meaning in saying that final excavation can not be done.
the matter has already been discussed with you and finalised.
no further action is required to be taken.
the trial court as well as the high court are in our view justified in holding that crops of sarson gram and lusan were standing on the land acquired by the military for extension of the aerodrome.
it 1is true that when a witness has admitted having signed his previous statements that is enough to prove that some statement of his was recorded and he had appended his signature thereto.
the appellant has denied that there was any standing crop on the land acquired on any date after 13 2 63.
we are therefore not impressed with this argument.
we do not think in these circumstances there is any justification whatever for interfering with the concurrent findings of the trial court and the high court that the appellant is guilty of an offence under section 51c read with section 52 of the prevention of corruption act and consequently the appeal is dismissed.
