it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
in this group of cases we are faced with a different problem of alleged exploitation by big manufacturers of bulk drugs.
the problem is that of high prices bearing it is said little relation to the cost of production to the manufacturers.
by way of illustration we may straightaway mention a glaring instance of such high pricing which was brought to our notice at the very commencement of the hearing.
barlagan ketone a bulk drug was not treated as an essential bulk drug under the drugs prices control.
order 1970 and was not included in the schedule to that order.
a manufacturer was under the provisions of that order free to continue to sell the drug at the price reported by him to the central government at the time of the commencement of the order but was under an obligation not to increase the price without the prior approval of the central government.
the price which the manufacturer of barlagan kotone reported to the central government in 1971 was rs 24735 68 per kg.
after the 1979 drugs prices control.
order came into force the distinction between essential and non essential bulk drugs was abolished and a maximum price had to be fixed for barlagan ketone also like other bulk drugs.
the manufacturer applied for fixation of price at rs 8500 per kg.
the government however fixed the price at rs 1810 per kg.
for the moment ignoring the price fixed by the government we see that the price of rs 24735 per kg.
at which the manufacturer was previously selling the drug and at which he continues to market the drug to this day because of the quashing of the order fixing the price by the high court is so unconsciously high even compared with the price claimed by himself that it appears to justify the charge that some manufacturers do indulge in profiteering.
profiteering by itself is evil.
profiteering in the scarce resources of the community much needed life sustaining food stuffs and lifesaving drugs is diabolic.
it is a menance which had to be lettered and curbed.
one of the principal objectives of the essential commodities act 1955 is precisely that.
t must be remembered that article 39b enjoins a duty on the state towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.
the essential commodities act is a legislation towards that end.
section 31 of the essential commodities act enables the central government if it is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair price to provide for regulating or prohibiting by order the production supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.
in particular section 32c enables the central government to make an order providing for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold.
it is in pursuance of the powers granted to the central government by the essential commodities act that first the drugs prices control.
order 1970 and later the drugs prices control.
armed with authority under the drugs prices control.
the manufacturers had also filed review petitions before the government under paragraph 27 of the 1979 order.
the union of india has preferred these appeals by special leave of this court against the judgment of the high court.
order 1979 we would like to make certain general observations and explain the legal position in regard to them.
but our examination will stop there.
we will go no further.
we will not deluge ourselves with more facts and figures.
and we will not revaluate the considerations even if the prices are demonstrably injurious to some manufacturers or producers.
that is a different cup of tea altogether.
though difficult it is necessary that the line must sometimes be drawn as different legal fights and consequences may ensue.
that is not ruled out.
the right of the citizen to obtain essential articles at fair prices and the duty of the state to so provide them are transformed into the power of the state to fix prices and the obligation of the producer to charge n6 more than the price fixed.
viewed from whatever angle the angle of general application the prospectivity of its effect the public interest served and the rights and obligations flowing therefrom there can be no question that price fixation is ordinarily a legislative activity.
the cases to which we shall now refer will perhaps elucidate what we have tried unfelicitously to express.
1 scc 468 1973 indlaw sc 291 a notification fixing the ex factory price of certain counts of cotton yarn was questioned on the ground that the price had been arbitrarily fixed.
in prag ice oil mills v union of india 1978 3 scc 459 1978 indlaw sc 472 a constitution bench of seven judges of this court had to consider the validity of the mustard oil price control.
that it was enough compliance with the constitutional mandate if the basis adopted for price fixation was not shown to be so patently unreasonable as to be in excess of the power to fix the price.
in new india sugar works v state of uttar pradesh 1981 2 scc 293 1981 indlaw sc 217 there was an indication though it was not expressly so stated that the question of observing natural justice did not arise in cases of price fixation.
in laxmi khandsari v state of uttar pradesh 1981 2 scc 600 1981 indlaw sc 558 it was held that the sugar cane control order 1966 was a legislative measure and therefore rules of natural justice were not attracted.
all er 609.
in sarkari sasta anaj vikreta sangh v state of madhya pradesh 1981 4 scc 471 1981 indlaw sc 607 it was pointed out that the amendment of the madhya pradesh food stuffs distribution control order was a legislative function and there was therefore no question of affording an opportunity to those who were to be affected by it.
the procedure for the imposition of the tax is legislative and not quasijudicial.
the legislative character of the activity is not shed and an administrative or quasi judicial character acquired merely because guidelines prescribed by the statutory order have to be taken into account.
the characterization of an administrative act as legislative instead of judicial is thus of great significance.
paragraph 11 explains what mark up means.
order 2979 was a quasijudicial activity obliging the observance of the rules of natural justice.
nothing in the scheme of the drugs prices control.
order is not a legislative activity but a quasi judicial activity which would attract the observance of the principles of natural justice.
on the question of the scope of a review the learned counsel for the respondents invited our attention to vrajlal manilal co v union of india anr 1964 7 scr 97 1964 indlaw sc 194 shivaji nathubhai v union of india ors 1960 2 scr 775 1960 indlaw sc 430 maneka gandhi 1978 2 scr 621 1978 indlaw sc 212 swadeshi cotton mills 1981 2 scr 533 1981 indlaw sc 349 and liberty oil mills.
in vrajlal manilal co v union of india anr 1964 indlaw sc 194 supra the court held that the union of india when disposing of an application for review under rule 59 of the mines concession rules functioned as a quasi judicial authority and was bound to observe the principles of natural justice.
the decision rendered without disclosing the report of the state government and without affording reasonable opportunity to the appellants to present their case was contrary to natural justice was therefore void.
in shivaii nathubhai v union of india ors 1960 indlaw sc 430 supra it was decided by the court that the power of review granted to the central government under rule 54 of the mineral concession rules required the authority to act judicially and its decision would be a quasi judicial act and the fact that rule 54 gave power to the central government to pass such order as it may deem just and proper did not negative the duty to act judicially.
there is no question before us that paragraph 3 prescribes any arbitrary guideline.
we do not propose to delve into the question whether there has been any such arbitrary assumption of facts and figures.
d loss gain on sale of assets.
g adjustments relating to previous years.
in particular he argued that item a bonus in excess of statutory minimum should not have been excluded so also items of expenditure coming under the other heads b to g which had been allowed by income tax authorities as legitimate expenses.
the subordinate legislating body was under no obligation to adopt the method adopted by the income tax authorities in allowing expenses for the purpose of ascertaining income and assessing it.
we do not agree with this submission.
the union of india is entitled to the costs of the appeal and the writ petition in the high court.
one is that all the writ petitions were disposed of by a common judgment and an appeal had been filed in the principal case.
