a suit was filed in s c suit no 493 of 1986 in the bombay city civil court bombay by vicco laboratories appellant herein manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceutical products against defendant nos 1 to 4respondents herein for a declaration that the title and format of the suit serial yeh jo hai zindagi exclusively belonged to them and respondents nos 1 to 4 have no right thereto and for permanent injunction restraining the said respondents from making use of the title or episodes belonging to the petitioners or any episodes hereafter made.
a number of averments germane to this case as set out in the plaint are set out hereunder.
the petitioners carried on business as manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceuticals products which were sold under the brand name of vicco and have acquired substantial reputation in the market.
the 1st respondent are an advertising agency and have been the advertising agents in respect of the products manufactured by the petitioners as aforesaid for number of years.
the 2nd respondent is a director andor partner of the 1st respondent and has mainly dealt with the petitioners on behalf of the 1st respondent.
respondents nos 3 4 are proprietary concerns of respondent no 2 the 5th respondent is the union of india and has been joined as the authority concerning television in india in the name and style of doordarshan which is a television media.
the petitioners had employed the respondent nos 1 to 4 as their advertising agents through the petitioners sister concern m s modern advertising agency and uta advertising agency and were dealing with the respondent no 1 mainly through the petitioners managing director g k pendharkar.
in 1984doordarshan in order to popularize sponsored serial undertook the production of a serial by the name humlog.
the petitioners are also pioneers in making use of doordarshan for advertising their products through the agency of the 1st respondent approached the 1st respondent to act as their agents for the purpose of producing a serial which would be shown as petitioners sponsored programme.
the petitioners agreed to pay the entire costs of the said production to the said advertising agency and requested it to look into the matter employed various persons on behalf of the petitioners and prepare a suitable serial for them.
pursuant to the said arrangement the respondent nos 1 to 4 as the agents of the petitioners prepared at the costs and expenses of the petitioners a serial entitled yeh jo hai zindagi.
the petitioners claimed that as a result of the employment of the respondent nos 1 to 4 and the finances paid by them the petitioners are the owners of the said serial yeh jo hai zindagi and the title thereof.
the first and second respondents under the arrangement produced about 60 episodes and the petitioners have spent a crore of rupees for the products and telecast of the said episodes and have also spent large sums of money on advertising to popularize the said programme.
yeh jo hai zindagi had gained popularity and had become one of the most exclusive and popular serial.
the petitioners claimed that the exclusive right to use the title thereof belonged to them and the 2nd episode of yeh jo hai zindagi was telecast without the name of the petitioners being mentioned as sponsors nor was their advertisement shown.
this was due to the negligence of the respondent nos 1 to 4 but the respondents recovered the cost of production from the petitioners.
further the said respondents had been recovering the cost of production well in advance of the serial episodes being actually produced.
apart from raising the question of valuation of the suit and the pecuniary jurisdiction of the court to try the same they also raised question that the petitioners are not the owners of the copyright in the said serial within the meaning of s 17 of the copyright act1957 and the copyright in respect of the said serial belongs and vests with the respondent nos 1 to 4.
therefore it was submitted that the suit lacked cause of action.
while traversing the case on merit they contended that it was all along agreed between the petitioners and respondents that the copyright in the said serial would rest exclusively in the respondents and not in the petitioners.
either at the end of 1983 or early part of 1984the 5th respondent through the said doorsarshan decided to introduce the production of films or serials especially for exhibitions on tv instead of exhibiting telecasting films produced by the professional film producers on payment of exorbitant royalty to them partly as an economy measure and partly to provide avenues to and exposure new talents.
on these grounds the respondents contended that the suit of the petitioners is misconceived malicious and baseless and is liable to be dismissed.
the respondents contended that on no occasion the petitioners acted as a producer and even the contract was signed by the petitioners as an advertiser and by the respondent no 1 as an approved agent.
the defendants prove that the plaintiffs are not the owners of the copyright of the tv serial film viz.
11 to what relief if any are the plaintiffs entitled.
12 what order.
the trial court felt that it was addressed not to the petitioners but to the respondents alone.
the trial court proceeded thereafter to examine the payments made in regard to production of the serial.
on proper construction of the bills the trial court rejected the contention that these bills and payments as showing that they had borne the costs of production of the suit serial and therefore they are the producers.
the trial court also noticed that in respect of both the advertisements and also in respect of suit serial the petitioners paid to the respondent nos 5 and 6 amount which was to be the maximum amount.
thus the profits or loss was of the respondents and there is element of liability to render account was missing and thus there was no question of respondents being the agents of the petitioners within the meaning of s 182 of the indian contract act.
the suit serial was produced by the respondents as agents of the petitioners was false.
thus the trial court proceeded to uphold the contentions raised on behalf of the respondents to dismiss the suit.
on appeal the high court re examined the matter and on examination of the pleadings the contentions put forth before the court the evidence on record and the findings recorded by the trial court concluded that the findings recorded by the trial court are proper.
the high court also examined the scope of s 17 of the copyright act and the ingredients thereof not having been established the high court held that no claim could be based on the same and thus agreed with the findings recorded by the trial court and dismissed the appeal.
4 contracts with doordarshan.
we have carefully considered the contentions urged on behalf of the petitioners.
the trial court thus rightly noted that there was no agency between the parties.
ltd by the respondents pursuant to letters dated 14 december 1984 and 15 november 1985 and had received royalty for the video rights and the original u matic cassettes were returned to them by esquire distributing servicing pvt.
ltd as their property.
thus the pleadings and the evidence on record clearly indicated that the respondents were not the agents of the petitioners for the purpose of producing the said serial.
therefore the view taken by the courts below in this regard appears to be correct.
thus we find absolutely no merit in this petition.
we decline to interfere with the order made by the high court affirming the decree of the trial court.
