aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
under show cause notices it was alleged that the appellants herein assessee have sold the biscuits under the brand name meghrajwhich was a registered trade mark of kay aar biscuits p ltd who was using the said trade mark on manufacture of biscuits themselves and therefore the appellants were not eligible to the benefit of ssi notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 1993 as amended by notification no 5994 ce dated 1 3 1994.
the above show cause notices were issued by the department demanding differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992 the said demand was based on an agreement detected by the department.
that agreement was between madan verma director of a company known as m s.
kay aar biscuits p.
ltd ghaziabad and m s rich food products p ltd noida.
under the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was.
party no 1 under the agreement.
it was declared that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
under the agreement.
it was stated that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was using the aforestated trade mark meghraj for the manufacture of biscuits.
under the agreement there was a recital under which it was stated that m s.
rich food products p.
ltd had put up a unit for manufacture of wafers in noida which it sought to manufacture under the brand name meghraj.
the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd gave permission to m s rich food products pvt.
ltd to use its trade mark for the manufacture of wafers alone.
the said agreement was valid for three years commencing from 22 11 1989.
at this stage it may be noted that the appellants herein claim to have started manufacture of biscuits in 1991 the biscuits were sold in wrapper mentioning the name of the appellantsm s.
meghraj biscuits industries ltd or meghraj.
the appellants claimed that it has been using the wrapper since beginning and since 1991 the use of the trade name or brand name meghraj has never been challenged.
he came to the conclusion vide his orders that the trade name meghraj was in the form of a logo printed on the wrapper of the biscuits and therefore the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 as amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 consequently the adjudicating authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992.
aggrieved by the decision of the adjudicating authority the assessee preferred appeals to the commissioner a the said appeals were rejected on the ground that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj of another manufacturer m s kay aar biscuits p ltd on their products biscuits and therefore they were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
it was held that the word meghraj was printed on all the printed wrappers and therefore it was wrong to say that the appellants were not using the brand name meghraj on its products.
and therefore they were entitled to exemption.
this argument was rejected by the commissioner a saying that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj on their products.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
this contention was rejected by the commissioner a on the ground that under the notification no 193 ce as amended exemption was not available to the specified goods bearing brand name or trade name registered or not of another person.
since the appellants herein had used the trade name meghraj on their products which trade name was owned by m s ltd the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
the orders of the commissioner a have been confirmed by order dated 11 4 2000 passed by cegat.
hence these civil appeals.
ltd and m s.
he has not been examined even on the question of alleged transfer of the trade mark in favour of the appellants.
in the circumstances we do not find any merit in this appeal.
on behalf of the appellants it has been vehemently argued that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was never the registered owner of the trade mark meghraj.
we do not find any merit in the above arguments.
this court has held that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
the department has rightly placed reliance on the agreement of 23 11 89 in the circumstances the burden was on the assessee appellants herein to satisfy the adjudicating authority that there was no intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person.
we do not find any merit in this argument.
discontinuation of business in respect of a product does not necessarily amount to abandonment.
the mark can be originated by a person or it can be subsequently acquired by him from somebody else.
the effect of the relevant provision of the english acts was that registration of a trade mark would be deemed to be equivalent to public user of such mark.
prior to the acts one could become a proprietor of a trade mark only by user but after the passing of the act of 1875one could become a proprietor either by user or by registering the mark even prior to its user.
law in india under our present act is similar.
in many of those cases the dispute was between a foreign trader using a foreign mark in a foreign country on goods which were subsequently imported by indian importers and sold by them in this country under that very mark.
in short it was a competition between a foreign trader and the indian importer for the proprietorship of that mark in this country.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
it is confined to the provisions of the trade marks act.
in the case of consolidated foods corporation v brandon and co.
for instance under s 23 of the trade marks act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark.
priority in adoption and use of a trade mark is superior to priority in registration.
