accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
it was an arranged marriage.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
the father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time because he lacked the resources.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
it is the case of the prosecution that for non payment of dowry the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
they even refused to send her to her parental house.
this was informed by the deceased to various persons including her relatives and elders.
she was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected by the accused persons.
on 15th february2003at about 11 a m the deceased committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused.
when pathan basheerunnisa lw3 returned from her work the accused sent her out giving her money to bring the soaps upon which she went out and when she came back she found the accused absent and the bride hanging in the house.
subsequently lw 3 pathan basheerunnisa sent her grandson pathan inayatullah khan lw 4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
when the parents of the deceased came to the house of the accused and found the deceased hanging from the beam with a saree they untied her and took her to the government general hospital guntur hoping that the deceased may be alive.
however upon medical examination by the doctor she was declared brought dead.
the father of the deceased pathan yasin khan lw 1 and her mother pathan shamshad begum lw 2 were present at that time.
lw 1lodged the report which was registered by sri k srinivasarao lw 16the sub inspector of police.
the fir was registered under section 304b and section 498a of the indian penal code1860 for short the ipc thereafter investigation was conducted by one shri p devadass lw 17 he inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
thereupon the body was sent for postmortem examination through constable p venkateswara reddy lw 15 lw 17p devdass also took photographs of the scene 3 lw 13dr.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
they faced the trial and were convicted by learned sixth additional munsif magistrate guntur for committing an offence under sections 498a and 304b ipc.
the undergone remand period of a 1 to a 3 shall be set off u s 428 cr.
p c m o 1 shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
the unmarked property if any shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
the judgment dated 4th october2004 passed by the learned trial court was challenged in appeal before the high court.
the high court of andhra pradesh vide its judgment dated 26th october2006while allowing the appeal in part convicted accused nos 1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences however acquitted accused no 3namely pathan khadar basha.
the sentence awarded by the trial court was confirmed.
after seeing this she raised cries and people came to the scene.
in fact there is no dispute to the fact that the deceased died of hanging.
from the above evidence it is clear that the dowry demands were being raised by the accused persons persistently from the family of the deceased and for that they even harassed the deceased by beating and abusing her.
she had informed her parents of the ill treatment and the cruelty inflicted on her for non giving of dowry.
in the case of biswajit halder alias babu halder and others v state of w b 2008 1 scc 202 2007 indlaw sc 304the court stated the ingredients of this provision as follows 10 the basic ingredients to attract the provisions of section 304 b are as follows.
13 if.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
in this actdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
this court in ran singh v state of haryana2008 4 scc 700 2008 indlaw sc 120 held that the payments which are customary payments for example given at the time of birth of a child or other ceremonies as are prevalent in the society or families to the marriage would not be covered under the expression dowry.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
the definition of dowry is not restricted to agreement or demand for payment of dowry before and at the time of marriage but even include subsequent demands was the dictum of this court in state of a p v.
s 4 of the act is the penal section and demanding a dowryas defined under s 2 of the act is punishable under this section.
as already noticed we need not deliberate on this aspect as the accused before us has neither been charged nor punished for that offence.
similar view was expressed by this court in yashoda v state of m p20043 scc 98 2004 indlaw sc 132 where this court stated that determination of the period would depend on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
thus the cruelty harassment and demand of dowry should not be so ancient whereafter the couple and the family members have lived happily and that it would result in abuse of the said protection.
the court can not ignore one of the cardinal principles of criminal jurisprudence that a suspect in the indian law is entitled to the protection of art 20 of the constitution of india as well as has a presumption of innocence in his favour.
such a presumption can be drawn by the court keeping in view the evidence produced by the prosecution in support of the substantive charge under section 304 b of the code.
onus has to be discharged by leading proper and cogent evidence.
maintaining silence can not be equated to discharge of onus by the accused.
in the present case the prosecution by reliable and cogent evidence has established the guilt of the accused.
the high court acquitted pathan khadar basha the fatherin law of the deceased as there was no direct evidence against him.
accused pathan hussain basha and pathan nazeer abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
