this appeal by special leave is directed against order dated 13 7 2005 passed by the division bench of the bombay high court.
dismissing letter patents appeal preferred by the appellant against the order of the learned single judge who dismissed his writ petition and confirmed the orders passed by the state minister for revenue in the proceeding r t s 3402 pra kra 309 l 6 dated 18th october2002.
it is the appellant s case that his father shri nawoosingh panjumal panjwani was a displaced person who migrated from pakistan to india during the period of partition and the appellant s family while in pakistan was having agricultural land over there admeasuring 4 acres 10 gunthas.
after migration the family took shelter at refugee camp of pimpri pune in maharashtra.
in view of enactment of displaced persons compensation and rehabilitation act1954 by the union of india the immovable properties left behind by muslims who had migrated to pakistan were acquired and the same was distributed to displaced persons as a compensation pool.
accordingly father of the appellant was allotted a land admeasuring 2 acres 5 gunthas bearing revenue survey nos 351 and 1182 situated at village lonavala taluka maval district pune.
it has been pleaded by the appellant that survey no 1181 and 1182 are one and the same thing.
the facts in brief as narrated in the impugned order are that survey nos 118328 and 351 of lonavala were originally owned by one haji habib tar mohammed janu.
the said haji habib tar mohammed janu migrated to pakistan and while going to pakistan he sold his property to one smt.
hajrabi haji yusuf on 4 6 1949 however this transaction was cancelled by the collector and custodian of evacuee property on 17 4 1949 as per section 8i of the evacuee properties act and these lands were accordingly entered as evacuee property by the tahsildar maval on 26 10 1949 it appears that these survey numbers were also given c t s no 129130 a130 b and 133.
it appears that in cts no 129130 a130 b and 133apart from vacant land there is a bungalow no 52 habib villa.
it appears that the regional settlement commissioner placed this property for auction through government auctioner and one gulabbai desaipurchased the said property in auction for a consideration of rs 16750 on 17 5 1956 and accordingly sale certificate was issued by the regional settlement commissioner bombay on behalf of the government.
in the said sale certificate the c t s no 129130 a130 b and 133 of village lonavala were mentioned.
the area of this cts nos were as under.
thereafter gulabai sold cts no 133 admeasuring 33 gunthas on 24 4 1977 to respondent no 3 genu kadu.
the said gulabai also gifted her remaining area from this survey numbers to her grandson anil gajanan desai on 15 1 1979who in turn has sold his properties to respondent no 2.
prem hasmatraj lalwani in the year 1980.
it appears that the said order was taken in appeal by the respondent and the matter was remanded to the sub divisional officer.
the directions were issued by the collector to the tahsildar to place the appellant in possession of the property as per the orders of the deputy collector and the deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
however instead of giving effect to those orders it appears that the revenue officers at tahsil level effected two mutations viz mutation no 2377 and 2394 by mutation entry no 2377 the name of respondent was again mutated in the record and by the mutation entry no 2394 the name of genu kadu was mutated in the record.
appellant challenged the order dated 19 10 2002 passed by the minister by filing a writ petition which was dismissed by learned single judge of the bombay high court.
thereafter the appellant filed letters patent appeal which was also dismissed by the division bench holding that when the state minister for revenue entertained the matter he was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
the division bench observed thus.
we record our finding.
thus viewed from any angle we find that the state minister for revenue when he entertained the matter state minister for revenue was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
hence the present appeal by special leave.
that a second revision to the high court under section 482 of the cr.
p c was not permitted.
lastly mr ahmadi submitted that the second revision would not lie under section 257 of the revenue code since section 259 of the code provides an opportunity to the state government to only correct any final order while exercising power under the provisions of section 257 i e with regard to its legality and propriety.
the language and the words used in the said provision suggest that jurisdiction of the state government is concurrent with the jurisdiction of other revenue officers in deciding the revision.
the power of revision exercised by any revenue officer including the commissioner is a proceeding by a subordinate officer and the state government can satisfy itself as to the legality and propriety of any decision including the order passed in revision by the revenue officers.
further in view of the fact that state government itself appoints the revenue officers including the commissioner under the scheme of the code and all revenue officers are subordinate to the state government as per section 11 of the act and even the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division is vested with the commissioner they are subject to the superintendence direction and control of the state government as provided under section 5 of the code.
in fact the two authorities are interchangeable.
hence it was argued that second revision was not maintainable.
hence this appeal has no merit which is accordingly dismissed.
