Civil Appeal No 50 of 1961.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated March 10 1959 of the Industrial Tribunal.
Kozhikode in ID No 89 of 1958.
A V Viswanatha Sastri and T V R Tatachari for the appellant Janardan Sharma for the resondents.
January 29.
It is said that on June 21 1958 Sankaran came drunk to they mill and abused the Engineer the Secretary and others and threatened them with physical violence.
He was caught hold of by other workmen and taken outside.
It is said that he came again a short time later at 4 30 pm and abused the same persons again.
Thereupon the appellant served a charge sheet on Sankaran on June 24 1958 acting out the above facts and asked him to show cause why his services should not be terminated on account of his grave indiscipline and misconduct.
As no inquiry was held till July 2 1958 Sankaran again wrote to the appellant to hold the inquiry as early as possible.
In that order the appellant informed Sankaran that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if he was retained in the service of the appellant and therefore it considered that no inquiry should be held.
A dispute was then raised by the union which was referred to the industrial tribunal for adjudication by the Government of Kerala in October 1958.
It further held that the appellant had intended to take disciplinary action against the workman but subsequently departmental proceedings were dropped and action was taken under r 18a of the Standing orders.
In the result the order of discharge was set aside and Sankaran was ordered to be reinstated.
In any case even if the inquiry was not held by the appellant and action was taken under r 18 a it is now well settled in view of the decisions cited above that the employer could defend the action under r 18a by leading evidence before the tribunal to show that there was in fact misconduct and therefore the action taken under r 18a was bona fide and was not colourable exercise of the power under that rule.
But the tribunal has pointed out that the employer did not attempt to do so before it.
It is enough to say that the position of government servants stands on an entirely different footing as compared to industrial employees.
In this case the tribunal held that the exercise of power was colourable and it cannot be said that view is incorrect.
Appeal dismissed.
