iminal Appeals Nos.
160 to 162 of 1960.
Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 20 1960 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Government Appeals Nos.
2011 to 2013 of 1958.
B C Misra and P K Chakravarti for the appellant.
G C Mathur and C P Lal for the respondent.
September 27.
In all these trials the appellant who was a postman attached to the Bulandshahr post office was tried for offences under section 52 of the Indian Post Office Act 1898 VI of 1898 and in two of  them also for offences under sections 467 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code.
Briefly stated the allegations against the appellant were that he either stole or secreted five registered letters and that he fabricated three receipts showing that the registered letters were received by the addressees.
Briefly stated the prosecution case is that when the house in which the appellant lives along with his father Diwan Singh a retired Police Head Constable was searched by the CID Inspector SN Singh along with Masood Murtaza Sub Inspector of Police Bulandshahr on May 12 1956 in connection with a case against Messrs Greenwood Publicity they accidentally discovered a large number of letters and postcards and also the five registered letters in question.
At the time of the search the appellant who happens to be a trade union official was not in Bulandshahr but was away on leave at Delhi in connection with a postal conference.
A number of other articles were also seized at that time but we are not concerned with them as they have no connection with the charges against the appellant.
Briefly the appellant s defence in all these cases is that there are two factions in the Bulandshahr post office and that these articles were planted by the opposite party.
According to him the planting must have occurred in the Kotwali when the Sub Inspector purported to make a list of the articles seized from the house in which the appellant lives.
Further according to him neither the house nor the almirah from which the articles are said to have been 411 seized was in his exclusive possession.
2 That it has not been established that the five registered letters were in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
4 That in examining the appellant the Ad ditional Session Judge did not comply with the requirements of section 342 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
5 That the High Court has not found that there were compelling reasons for setting aside the appellant s acquittal .
6 The sentences in the three cases having been ordered to run consecutively the total sentence is excessive.
It may be that where the provisions of  sections 103 and 165 Code of Criminal Procedure are 412 contravened the search could be resisted by the person whose premises are sought to be searched.
In so far as the contravention of provisions of section 342 Code of Criminal Procedure are concerned it is sufficient to point out that no grievance was made either before the Court of the Additional Sessions judge or before the High Court that there was such a contravention and the appellant was prejudiced and we cannot allow the point to be raised for the first time here the reason being that whether there was prejudice is a question of fact and cannot be permitted to be agitated for the first time in an appeal under article 136 of the Constitution.
In so far as section 52 of the Act is concerned the argument is that the prosecution having merely shown that the registered letters were recovered from an almirah in the house in which the appellant lives the 413 utmost that could be said is that he was in possession of letters that is assuming that he was in the exclusive possession of the house and the almirah.
As already stated all that the prosecution has been able to prove is this case is that these letters were found in an almirah of the house in which the appellant lives jointly with his father and of which the key was furnished by the father.
 Before the High Court could take into consideration the circumstance that as between himself and his father the appellant had a better opportunity to 417 get at postal articles it had to find affirmatively that the almirah was in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
In the circumstances we must hold that the prosecution has failed to prove that these letters were in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
