2 Nodirection shall be made under sub section 1 for the trial of an offence for which an accused person was being tried at the commencement of this Act before any court but save as aforesaid such direction may be made in re spect of an offence whether such  offence was committed before or after the commencement of this Act.
 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
 Before considering whether section 51 infringes to any and what extent the constitutional prohibition under article 14 it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
292 purports to provide for the matters to be tried by a special court and does not in form seek to define the kind or class of offences or cases which the State Government is empowered under the Act to assign to such a court for trial.
The object of the law we assume until the lower Court shall decide otherwise is single to keep up competition and the general language is to be restricted by the specific provi sions and to the particular end.
 The title and the preamble as well as the other specific provisions of the Act here in question show unmistakably that the whole object and purpose of the legislation was to devise machinery for speedier trial of certain offences which must mean trial of cases involving the commission of certain 1 1830 I B  Ad.
2  293 offences as there can of course be no trial of offences in the abstract and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature for a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
294 pledge of the protection of equal laws Yick Wo vs Hopkins 1 that is Jaws that operate alike on all persons under like circumstances.
It is the essence of a classification said Mr Justice Brewer in Atchison Topeka  Santa Fe R Co vs Matthews 3 that upon the class are cast duties and burdens different from those resting upon the general public.
It seems like a contradiction to say that a law having equality of operation may yet give equality of protection.
2 299 That is to say the ordinance was what the Privy Council called a colourable legislative expedient which under the guise or pretence of doing what is constitutionally per missible in substance and purpose seeks to effect discrim ination Morgan Proprietary Ltd vs Deputy Commissioner of Taxation for New South Wales 1.
3  2  300 provision Day J observed after referring to certain prior decisions  These cases leave in no doubt the proposition that the conferring of discretionary power upon administrative boards to grant or withhold permission to carry on a trade or business which is the proper subject of regulation within the police power of the state is not violative of rights secured by the 14th Amendment.
 In the face of all these considerations it seems to me difficult to condemn section 5 1 as violative of article 14.
5 There is nothing sacred or sacrosanct about the test of reasonable classification but it has undoubtedly proved to be a useful basis for meeting attacks on laws and offi cial acts on the ground of infringement of the equality principle.
MUKHERJEA J.
 It is in substance modelled upon the equal pro tection clause occurring in the Fourteenth Amendment of the American Constitution with a further addition of the rule of equality before the law which is an established maxim of the English Constitution.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
It merely requires that all persons subject to such legislation shall be treated alike under like cir cumstances and conditions both in the privileges conferred and in the liabilities imposed The inhibition of the amendment was designed to prevent any person or class of persons from being singled out as a special subject for discriminating and hostile legislation.
Appeals dismissed.
