From the judgment and decree dated April 21 1969 of the Allahabad High Court in First Appeal No 80 of 1964.
b of clause I of Article 133 of the Constitution granted by the Allahabad High Court against its judgment and decree dated April 21 1969 disposing of appeals out of a suit for declaration and possession.
The plaintiffs filed a suit claiming that the property in dispute belonged to the Math Sauna or the deity Sri Thakur Gokarneshwar 661 Mahadeo Ji installed in the Math Sauna temple and that Mahant Sadashiva Yati was in possession as Mahant and Sarbarakar.
It was claimed that in the event of Mahant Sadashiva Yati being found out of possession a decree for possession should be made.
Sadashiva Yati pleaded that on the death of Mahant Shivshanker Yati he was elected Mahant of Math Sauna and was therefore entitled as Sarbarakar to all the properties recorded in the deity Mahadeo Ji or in the name of Mahant Shivshanker Yati.
These properties included properties in village Amauli.
He asserted that Shivshanker Yati possessed no personal property.
The suit was contested by the first defendant Kedar Nath Chaubey also referred to as Uma Shanker Yati.
He alleged that Mahant Shivshanker Yati owned personal properties which included the properties in village Amauli that he was the chela of Mahant Shivshanker Yati and the Amauli properties had passed to him under a will executed by the Mahant.
Math Sauna is an old Math situated in the village of that name in Tehsil Saidpur in the district of Ghazipur.
One of the earliest Mahants of the Math Mahant Gokaran Yati raised a temple in the premises of the Math and installed a deity acclaimed by the name of Gokarneshwar Mahadeo.
On his death he was succeeded by Mahant Shivbaran Yati who executed a waqf deed on November 12 1892 dedicating various properties to the deity with the intent that arrangements for bhog deepdan and other expenses be met from them.
The surplus the deed directed was to be employed for acquiring further property in the name of the deity and was not to be applied by the Sarbarakar to his personal use.
The learned Civil Judge decreed the suit but included a finding in his judgment that Sadashiv Yati was not a regularly constituted Mahant of Math Sauna and Sarbarakar of the deity.
First Appeal No 80 of 1964 was filed by Kedar Nath Chaubey  Uma Shanker Yati against the declaration that the Amauli properties were owned by Math Sauna or the deity and that Sadashiv Yati was in possession thereof as Mahant and Sarbarakar.
It held that the Amauli properties had been purchased by Shivshanker Yati in 1921 from 662 the personal and separate funds inherited by him from his predecessor Shivpher Yati and that the Amauli properties must therefore be regarded as his personal and separate properties and they did not belong to the Math or the deity.
It was observed in Sushil Chandra Sen vs Gobind Chandra Dasl that Dashnami sanyasis mixed freely in the business world and carried on trade and often accumulated property.
663 There is reason to believe that Mohant Shivbaran Yati Mohant Shivpher Yati and Mahant Shivshankar Yati were not celibates and had been grihasthas and were entitled to possess enjoy and acquire personal property.
He had also inherited the personal property of Mahant Shivbaran Yati who owned three private properties in village Shiv Dass in the district of Banaras.
He was granted a succession certificate by the District Judge Ghazipur in respect of the two fixed deposits made by Mahant Shivpher Yati in the Bank of Bengal.
Mahant Shivshankar Yati employed the inherited money in the purchase of two properties in village Amauli in 1921 paying Rs 30000 for a full interest in one property and Rs 10000 for a moiety share in the other.
In respect of both properties the revenue records mentioned the name of Mahant Shivshankar Yati and not that of the Math or the deity.
It is urged for the appellants that where a nucleus of dedicated property exists the acquisition of additional property should be attributed to the application of the nucleus and must therefore be regarded as property belonging to the Math or the deity.
As has been observed there can be no presumption either way.
In the present case it is difficult to conclude from the material before us that the total income from the properties belonging to the Math and the deity left any appreciable surplus after meeting the expenditure on account of bhog arpan deepdan daily and annual puja and the other obligations specified in the waqf deed.
It is pointed out before us that in assessment proceedings under the U P Agriculture Income Tax Act 1948 the Amauli properties were described by Mahant Shivshankar Yati as properties of the Math and therefore a claim to exemption from the levy was made.
In our judgment the High Court is right in the view that the Amauli properties constitute the personal property of Uma Shankar Yati and do not form part of the properties of the Math Sauna or of the deity Sri Thakur Gokarneshwar Mahadeoji.
In the result the appeal is dismissed with costs.
PBR Appeal dismissed.
