An industrial dispute between these workmen and the management of Orient Paper Mills Ltd hereinafter referred to as the Company was referred by the State Government under section 101 d of the Industrial Disputes Act hereinafter referred to as the Act for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
The first and the main point argued with regard to wages was that the Tribunal after holding that there was no identical industry in this region comparable with the Company came to.
the view that there were other industries in the region in which minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the Company but failed to fix the minimum wages in the award in accordance with the minimum wages being paid in those industries.
Instead what the Tribunal did was to work out the minimum wages which should be paid on an entirely different basis.
It was also urged in the alternative that even in adopting the latter course the Tribunal committed an error inasmuch as in making the calculation the Tribunal only tried to neutralise about 36 per cent of the cost of living 9n the basis of the rise in Price Index instead 669 of permitting neutralisation to the extent of at least 90 which could have been done when fixing the minimum wages for the owest class of workmen.
vs Workmen1 where it was held  It is now well settled that the principle of industry cum region has to be applied by an Industrial Court when it proceeds to consider questions like wage structure dearness allowance and similar conditions of service.
Even the profits earned were much smaller.
On these facts the Tribunal held that it would not be proper to compare the wage structure for these Paper Mills with that of the Company.
On this finding it is clear that the region cure industry principle laid down in the ease of French Motor Car Co Ltd 1 could not have been applied by the Tribunal when fixing the wages in the Company.
Though therefore in a case where a particular concern is already paying the highest wages in its own line of business the industrial courts would be justified in looking at wages paid in that region in other lines of business it should take care to see that the concerns from other lines of business taken into account are such as are as nearly similar as possible to the line of business carried on by the concern before it.
in the same region.
