Appeal No 1604 of 1967.
PP Rao and R N Sachthey for the appellants.
Whether the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry New Delhi Respondent 1 is a commercial establishment within the meaning of s25 of the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 1954 for short the Act is the sale question that falls for determination in this appeal by certificate directed against the judgment dated February 8 1967 of the High Court of Delhi.
The facts bearing on this question may now be stated Respondent 1 hereinafter referred to as the Federation is a Company registered under section 26 of the Indian Companies Act 1913.
The primary objects of the Federation as given in the Memorandum of Association are a To promote Indian business in matters of inland and foreign trade transport industry and manufactures finance and all other economic subjects and to encourage Indian banking shipping and insurance.
d To collect and disseminate statistical and other information and to make effort for the spread of commercial and economic knowledge.
fTo provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising in the course of trade industry or transport or other business matters and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
g To conduct undertake the conduct of and participate in national and international exhibitions.
1 To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
n O p q r s t u v x y To sell or dispose of the undertaking of the Federation or any part thereof for such consideration as the Federation may think fit and in particular for shares debentures or securities of any other association or company having objects altogether or in similar to those of the Federation.
z4 4 The income and property of the Federation whencesoever derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the Federation as set forth in the Memorandum of Association and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend bonus or otherwise by way of profit to the members of the Federation.
