Appeal No 696 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 13 1963 of the Madras High Court in Writ Appeal No IO of 1962.
Ganapatia Pillai J who heard the petition dismissed it.
1 The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
2 In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may provide for c the assessment to tax under this Act of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed 664 The first question to be considered in this appeal is whether Rule 21 A is intra vires of the power of the State Government under sections 191 and 2 of the Act.
By the amending Act of 1959 Act 1 of 1959 an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
But there is no such provision in the Act for the period with which we are concerned in the present case.
2  665 Whitney vs Commissioners of Inland Revenue that the liability to tax does not depend upon assessment.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
 It was contended that under this section the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default is charged on the property of the person liable to pay the tax.
 This section was amended by section 8 of the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 which reads as follows 1 666 Substitution of new section for section 10 in Madras Act IX of 1939.
For section 10 of the principal Act the following section shall be substituted namely 10.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act  .
1 Where any Act to which this Chapter applies is not expressed to come into operation on a particular day then it shall come into operation on the day on which the assent thereto of the Governor the Gover nor General or the President as the case may require is first published in the Official Gazette.
 In the present case the Act is not expressed to come into operation on any particular date but as it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8 1956 the Act came into operation on that date and not before.
But even on the assumption that the respondent undertook to pay the arrears of sales tax due by the transferor it does not follow 66 7 that there is a liability created inter se between the State Government on the one hand and the transferee on the other hand.
For these reasons we hold that the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court dated September 13 1963 is correct and this appeal must be dismissed with costs.
RKPS Appeal dismissed.
