N Criminal Appeal No 332 of 1977.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated 20 10 75 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 1 37975.
77 M C Bhandare A N Karkhanis Miss Malini Panduval and Mrs section Bhandare for the Appellant.
G L Sanghi and A K Verma for Respondent No 1.
M N Shroff for Respondent No 2.
In this appeal by special leave we are called upon to interpret a benign provision enacted to ameliorate the economic condition of neglected wives and discarded divorcees namely.
PC Welfare laws must be so read as to be effective delivery systems of the salutary objects sought to be served by the Legislature and when the beneficiaries are the weaker sections like destitute women this spirit of article 153 of the Constitution must belight the meaning of the Section.
So section 125 and sister clauses must receive a compassionate expansion of sense that the words used permit.
15 The initial warmth vanished and the jealousies of a triangular situation erupted marring mutual affection.
A suit relating to a flat in which the husband had housed the wife resulted in a consent decree which also settled the marital disputes.
For instance it recited that this respondent had transferred the suit premises namely a flat in Bombay to the appellant and also the shares of the Cooperative Housing Society which built the flat concerned.
 And another term in the settlement was that the appellant had by virtue of the compromise become the absolute owner of the flat and various deposits in respect of the said flat made with the cooperative housing society.
78 For some time there was flickering improvement in the relations between the quondum husband and the quondum wife and they lived together.
The appellant finding herself in financial straits and unable to maintain herself moved the magistrate under section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code 1973 for a monthly allowance for the maintenance of herself and her child.
This order was challenged before the sessions Judge by the aggrieved husband who on a strange view of the law that the court under section 125 had no jurisdication to consider whether the applicant was a wife dismissed the petition in allowance of the appeal.
or has obtained a divorce from her husband and has not remarried.
On this foundation he urged that accepting the contention of the respondent that the appellant was a divorcee his client was still entitled to an allowance.
This is obviously beyond dispute or.
a simple reading of the sub section and it is curious how this innovative and sensitive provision with a benignant disposition towards destitute divorcees has been overlooked by all the courts below.
We hold that every divorce otherwise eligible is entitled to the benefit of maintenance allowance and the dissolution of the marriage makes no difference to this right under the current Code.
In the normal course an order for maintenance must follow the quantum having been determined by the learned Magistrate at the trial level.
79 However Shri Sanghi appearing for the respondent sought sustain the order in his favour on three grounds They arc of pubic importance since the affected party in such a fact situation is the neglected divorcee.
He first argued that section 1254 would apply in the absence of proof that the lady was not living separately by mutual consent.
His next plea was that there must be proof of neglect to maintain to attract s125 and his third contention was that there was a settlement by consent decree in 1962 whereby the mehar money had been paid and all claims adjusted and so no claim for maintenance could survive.
ii in any other case from the date of expiry of the period if any for which maintenance has been actually paid by the husband to the woman We must state however that there was no specific plea based upon the latter provision set up anywhere in the courts below or urged before us.
But if one were to locate a legal ground to raise The contention That the liability to pay maintenance had ceased on account of the payment of mehar it is section 1273 of the Code.
Art153 has compelling compassionate relevance in the context of section 125 and the benefit of doubt.
If any in statutory interpretation belongs to the ill used wife and the derelict divorcee.
From this coign of vantage we must view the printed text of the particular Code.
80 section 125 requires as a sine qua non for its application neglect by husband or father.
Moreover the husband has not examined himself to prove that he has been giving allowances to the divorced wife.
His case on the contrary is that she has forfeited her claim because of divorce and the consent decree.
Obviously he has no case of non neglect.
His plea is his right to ignore.
In this generous jurisdiction a broader perception and appreciation of the facts and their bearing must govern the verdict not chopping little logic or tinkering with burden of proof.
Do divorcees have to 1 prove mutual consent to live apart Divorce painfully implies that the husband orders her out of the conjugal home.
If law has nexus with life this argument is still born.
No settlement of claims which does not have the special statutory right of the divorcee under section 125 can operate to negate that claim.
Nor can s127 rescue the respondent from his obligation.
But what was the amount of mehar  Rs 5000  interest from which could not keep the woman s body and soul together for a day even in that city where 40 of the population are reported to live on pavements unless she was ready to sell her body and give up her soul  The point must be clearly under stood that the scheme of the complex of provisions in Chapter IX has a social purpose.
Ill used wives and desparate divorcees shall not be driven to material and moral dereliction to seek sanctuary in the streets.
No construction which leads to frustration of the statutory project can secure validation if the court is to pay true homage to the Constitution.
If the first payment by way of mehar or ordained by custom has a reasonable relation to the object and is a capitalised substitute for the order under section 125 not mathematically but fairly then section 1273 b subserves the goal and relieves the obligor not pro tanto but wholly.
Law is dynamic and its meaning cannot he pedantic but purposeful.
PBR Appeal allowed.
