From the Judgment and Order dated 2671988 of the Allahabad High Court in Review Application No 27W of 1988.
Anil Dev Singh and Mrs section Dikshit for the Appellants.
In the year 1972 he was declared unfit by a Medical Board and was therefore inval idated from IAF The Government of India issued a scheme for the benefit of ex military officials.
 The respondent was required to furnish his acceptance of the terms and conditions contained in the said order includ ing the above term relating to the period of appointment and on his accepting the terms and conditions he was appointed as the Secretary in the District Soldiers Board in the district of Unnao in the State of Uttar Pradesh .
Again the term was extended upto 30th of August 1985 by an order dated 1st June 1983.
All these orders of exten sion were couched almost in the same language.
ADM141 Dated 3131982 on the above subject I am directed to say that the terms of the officers mentioned under para 2 who were appointed wef.
During the extended period of the contract conditions of service of officers shall remain same as are mentioned under their Appointment Order.
 It is thus seen that the appointment of the respondent was indisputably in the nature of contract and under the last order of appointment refened to above he was entitled to continue in office in the post in question till 30th of August 1985 and not beyond that date unless there was a further extension.
But on 2931985 the service of the 1st Respondent was terminated by the issue of a notice and payment of one month s salary.
A Division Bench of the High Court found that the order of termination that had been served on the respondent was an invalid one since it had been issued on the basis of Vigilance Report and no opportunity had been given to the respondent to show cause why such action should not be taken against him.
It is not necessary to set out all the reasons given by the High Court for setting aside the order of termination.
In the instant case the respondent was entitled to be in service till 30th of Au guSt 1985 unless there was a further extention.
In the Penultimate paragraph of the judgment the High Court further stated It is open for the opposite parties to con sider the claim of the petitioner for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court.
243 The respondent who was not satisfied by the order allow ing the Writ Petition as stated above preferred a Review Petition before the High Court contending that he was enti tled to be reinstated in service on the pronouncement of the Judgment on 243.
1988 notwithstanding the fact that his term of office had come to an end on 30th of August 1985 as stated above and no further order of extention had been passed by the Governor.
In support of the Review Petition the respondent relied on an interim order which had been passed by the High Court during the pendency of the Writ Petition on 10th of July 1986 which reads thus The post will be kept vacant and in case the petitioner succeeds in his Petition it would be made available forthwith to the petitioner by way of an appointment.
 The contention of the respondent was that the said interim order entitled him to be reinstated in service irrespective of the fact whether the Governor had extended the period of his appointment beyond 30th of August 1985.
It is not disputed that the scheme under which the respond ent 244 had been appointed provided for an appointment by contract for a specified term which could be extended from time to time and that the term of the respondent had been extended on different occasions after his first appointment and he was not entitled to continue in service beyond 30th August 1985 unless there was a further extension.
1985 was found to be an invalid one.
A reading of the Judgment of the High Court dated 2431988 shows that the respondent had not urged before the High Court that the order of appointment issued in his case was not in the nature of a contract and the subsequent orders extending his period of appointment till 30th of August 1985 were liable to be ignored and that he should be treated as a person regularly appointed in Government service entitled to con tinue till he completed the age of 58 years.
Even the order passed on Review on 2671988 does not make out that the respondent had put forward at that stage such a case.
His only case was that the interim order that had been passed on 10786 entitled him to be reinstated in service even though there was no order of extension of service.
245 In the circumstances we feel that while the High Court was right in disposing of the Writ Petition on 243.
1988 declaring that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service ie 30th August 1985 it was not right in making an order on Review on 2671988 relying upon the interim order dated 1071986 which in the circumstances could not have the effect of controlling the jurisdiction of the High Court to dispose of the Writ Petition on merits as it did on 2431988.
No costs.
TNA Appeal allowed.
