1 scc 645 1993 indlaw sc 1056.
i as well as the applicability of the rules and orders made by several state governments on the basis of the said decision.
having regard to the importance of the questions involved we consider it appropriate to issue notice to the attorney general of india as well as the advocates general for the states.
it would therefore not be feasible to take up the hearing of these matters before the court closes for the long vacation.
issue rule.
such merit shall be determined oh the basis of the academic performance at the qualifying examination or on the basis of any objective test that the institution might itself apply to determine such relative and competing merits or on the basis of performance of the results of the selection tests that the state government may itself hold for selecting candidates for admission to technical colleges in the state.
it is optional for the petitioners to adopt any one of these three modes and apply it uniformally.
it is made clear that this order is made on the assumption that the petitioners are minority institutions.
it is open to the respondents to question this status claimed by the petitioners.
minority educational institutions which are in receipt of state funds by way of aid3 minority educational institutions in respect of which it is not clear from the averments in the writ petitions whether they are aided or unaided institutions4.
it was directed that the order dated may 141993would not apply to educational institutions falling in categories 4 and 5 and the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 181993 the order dated may 141993was made applicable to the institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 with the modification that following were added in continuation of the said order in continuation it is made further clear that whether any of the petitioner institutions is a mei or not is a matter for the government to verify and determine.
112 1993 indlaw sc 575 applicable only to those institutions which are found to be meis on verification by the government and not to those who are not found to be meis on such verification.
in other words out of the 50 seats to be filled up by government half will be payment seats and half will be free seats.
such statements shall contain as full a particulars as possible.
any such irregularity if proved may entail serious consequences.
in the above two writ petitions to admit students to their colleges on the basis of entrance test conducted by them and on the same basis on which admissions were made by them in the said colleges in the previous academic year.
it is made clear that any violation of the directions given herein by the petitioners shall entail serious consequences inasmuch as the above orders are made based upon their representations and even before a counter affidavit has been filed by the respective respondents in view of the urgency expressed by them.
i e 1993with the direction that the basis of the said selection would be as indicated in order dated may 1419934 on the basis of merit leaving to the management of the college t m a pai foundation v state of karnataka1993.
4scc276 2002.
indlaw sc 2264 unnikrishnan j p v.
state of a p 1993 4 scc 111 1993 indlaw sc 1168 concerned to adjudge the merit of these candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
it is therefore directed that the admission for the academic session commencing in 1994 to the professional courses in the institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions shall be made on the following basis i in the institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 of 1993 and 482 of 1993 admission shall be made as per the directions given in the order dated august 1819932for the academic session commencing in 1993.
in the institutions referred to in writ petition no 598 of 1993 and similar minority educational institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by an agreement with the government of kerala the admissions shall be made in accordance with the terms of those agreements.
in the absence of such list they can themselves devise the method for such selection.
it is enough to record that shri vellapally learned counsel for the state of kerala disputes the minority character of these institutions.
insofar as non resident indians and foreign students are concerned the permissible limit would be only 5 of the total intake for a given year as per the direction contained in paragraph 6 of the order dated may 141993 as modified by order dated august 1819932 the admission against these seats shall be made on the basis of merit.
but it would be open for the management of the institution to adjudge the merit of the candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
conservators forests u p rendered on november 61990 it would appear that at present there are 215 direct recruits and 100 promotee asstt.
in k c joshi case it was concluded that the promotees were appointed on ad hoc basis as a stop gap arrangement in 7ubstantive posts.
conservators forest and the seniority of direct recruits shall accordingly be fixed.
conservators forest if not already made in accordance with rule 5b read with appendix b and rule 6.
all the employees are entitled to all consequential benefits.
later when raj narayan singh and others filed writ petition civil no 641 of 1991this court on june 61991 directed to convert the writ petition as a contempt case for non implementation of the direction issued in k c joshi case which was numbered as contempt petition no 164 of 1971 when.
in the light of that stand while dismissing the contempt petition this court directed the sate government to dispose of the matter on the basis of the representation that may be received from the petitioners therein against the draft seniority list within six months from that date.
in these contempt petitions the promotees as well as some of the subsequent direct recruits complain against fixation of their inter se seniority by the state government.
shri r k garg for the promotees contended that as on august 311982 selection of the promotees on regular basis to fill up the posts of asstt.
conservator forest for the years 1973 74 to 1979 80 had taken place by a regularly constituted selection committee which selected 140 candidates for appointment.
it is also contended that the promotees are entitled in terms of the judgment in k c joshi case for appointment by promotion to substantive vacancies within their quota in the respective years and that therefore their seniority should be counted from the years in which they started discharging their duties as asstt.
conservators forest as they were initially appointed to the substantive vacancies.
conservators forest.
conservators forest were available and their quota as per the existing rules was 25 per cent.
as per the ratio the promotees are entitled to 33 13per cent quota.
december 1198640 more posts were created.
258 on march 11985the quota was increased by 50 per cent.
as in the year 199072 more posts were created and the total posts are now 330 therefore they are entitled to 50 per cent of the quota in the tentative list.
in the light of the background scenario we can not strictly take it to be a case of contempt but in working out the directions issued by this court the state government committed a mistake in law.
conservators forest are awaiting appointment to substantive vacancies.
similarly as on january 11975the ratio was increased to 33 13 per cent namely66 23 per cent to the direct recruits and 33 13 per cent to the promotees.
indisputably a decision was taken on march 11975 to increase the quota to 50 per cent but no amendment to the statutory rules to give effect to it was made.
it is clear from the counter affidavit filed by the state that the posts are both permanent and temporary.
it is a policy matter.
in the event of converting them as permanent under rule 24the quota prescribed in rule 6 would be applied to substantive posts.
similar exercise for each year in which the substantive vacancies had arisen should be done.
after this exercise is exhausted appointments should be made posts are to be filled up to substantive vacancies.
as and when the temporary posts are converted either into permanent posts or the vacancies arise due to superannuation of the senior officers they should be fixed in the respective vacancies and fitment made.
after exhausting the exercise the remaining candidates awaiting appointment would continue to be temporary until they get due placement or fixation of their seniority.
the contempt petitions are accordingly disposed of.
petition disposed of.
