in order to appreciate the issue requiring determination a few relevant facts may be stated.
however before the charter party was to come to an end on 29th june1998the indian oil corporation limited for short ioc acting as agent of the appellant issued a fax to various ship owners including the respondent herein requesting them to extend the validity of the charter party agreement dated 6th may1997 beyond 30th june1998 for a period of one month from 1st july1998 with option for two further extensions of 15 days each.
accordingly on 29th june1998 an addendum was signed between the parties whereby the validity period of charter party was extended for one month with an option for two further extensions for a period of 15 days each.
the parties are ad idem that the charter party dated 6th may1997 was extended till 31st august1998.
however the oil coordination committee by their fax message dated 26th august1998declined the request of the oil companies including the appellant for further extension of charter party beyond 31st august1998 the said fax message was an internal communication between the oil coordination committee and the oil companies.
in response to the said tender the respondent and other vessel owners submitted their bids.
it appears that pending finalization of a new charter party for the period commencing 1st september1998certain meetings took place between the oil companies and the ship owners including the respondent herein.
as such all said and done oil co ordination committee s proposal was not accepted.
in the alternative it was suggested by the respondent that the charter period be extended by six months on the existing terms and conditions at a mutually discussed time charter rate.
admittedly the vessels continued to be chartered by the appellant beyond the date of this letter.
finally it was suggested that we therefore suggest that we sign an agreement with you for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter is finally decided by you under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on an ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
emphasis supplied.
in response the respondent while expressing their disappointment with the rate but purportedly in view of their long business relations with the appellant conveyed their acceptance of the proposed rate in respect of each of the vessels named in separate letters all dated 1st.
jag praja and jag prayog.
claims and counter claims were filed before the arbitral tribunal.
however arguments were heard only on the following three issues.
issue no 1 whether the hon ble arbitral tribunal has no jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the dispute between the claimant and the respondent for the period september1998 to august1999.
in respect of the vessel jag praja for the reasons stated in para 1 of the written statement.
issue no 2 whether there is any common practice that if the vessel is not re delivered at the end of the period mentioned in the time charter the vessel would be governed by the charter party under which originally it was chartered.
vide order dated 12th.
and as the dispute between the parties related to the period subsequent to 31st.
according to the tribunal on and after 1st september1998charter party agreement dated 6th may1997 was superseded by a fresh agreement and a term of the agreement was that the charter hire rate would be determined by the oil co ordination committee of the ioc in nutshell the tribunal was of the view that with the performance original charter party dated 6th may1997 got extinguished.
correctness of this order of the high court is questioned in this appeal.
in support of the proposition that the concurrence of a party can be gathered from his conduct like continued user of the vessel in the present case without any objection to respondent s letter dated 4th january1999reliance is placed on a decision of this court in the godhra electricity co ltd anr.
before we proceed to examine the rival stands we may note at the outset that neither the arbitral tribunal nor the high court have gone into the question whether the claim made by the respondent would otherwise fall within the ambit of the arbitration clause in the charter party or not.
in our view the principle of sub silentio is clearly attracted in the present case.
as noted above after the extended period of charter party dated 6th may1997 had come to an end on 31st august1998.
however on 31st october1998the appellant faxed ioc s message informing them of the extension of the existing coastal tanker fleet for the month of october1998 at reduced rates viz 80 of the charter party rates prevailing till 30th august1998 on receipt of the said letter the respondent vide their letter dated 5th november1998protested against the revision of the rates for the vessel not being considered under the new bid and stated in unequivocal terms that it was not possible for them to accept the proposal of the oil co ordination committee communicated to them vide letter dated 12th.
admittedly no such agreement was signed between the parties.
indubitably there was no further exchange of correspondence between the parties during the year.
in this context it would be appropriate to refer to cls 4 and 23 of the charter party dated 6th may1997 these are in the following terms 4 delivery redelivery 4 1.
charterers to give owners 15 days notice to probable port of re delivery.
4 2 charterers to load last three cargoes clean and re deliver the vessel in clean condition.
final voyage should the vessel be on her voyage towards the port of redelivery at the time of payment of hire is due payment of hire shall be made for such length of time as owners and charterers may agree upon as being estimated time necessary to complete the voyage less any disbursements made or expected to be made or expenses incurred or expected to be incurred by charterers for owners account and less the estimated amount of bunker fuel remaining at the termination of the voyage and when the vessel is redelivered any overpayment shall be refunded by the owners or underpayment paid by charterers.
indisputably the vessel in question had not been re delivered at least during the relevant period and the appellant continued to use the vessel beyond 31st august1998 having failed to re deliver the vessel in terms of cl 4 1 of the charter party the appellant can not plead that the charter party had been fully worked out.
however the arbitral tribunal answered the said issue against the respondent.
respect.
but it was still in existence for some purposes viz the effect of vessel s non re delivery as per the prescribed mechanism and its continued use beyond the stipulated time.
and thus the arbitration clause in the said charter party operated in respect of these and other allied purposes.
in view of the foregoing discussion we do not find any infirmity in the view taken by the high court that charter party dated 6th may1997 had not come to an end by efflux of time and it got extended by the conduct of the parties warranting interference.
having come to the conclusion that an arbitration agreement existed between the parties the question which remains to be considered is whether the disputes between the parties should be referred to the same arbitral tribunal which had come to the conclusion that in the absence of any arbitration agreement it did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claims and counter claims.
accordingly we constitute an arbitral tribunal consisting of justice m jagannadha rao presiding arbitratorjustice d p wadhwa and justice s n variava former judges of this court to adjudicate upon the claim counter claim by the parties subject to their consent and such terms and conditions as they may deem fit and proper.
appeal dismissed.
