on 15th february2003at about 11 a m the deceased committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused.
m madhusudana reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia as a result of hanging.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
and further a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence u s 304 b ipc both the sentences shall run concurrently.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
according to this witness on 23rd january2002the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused pathan hussain basha and he had accepted to give rs 25000 in marriage.
he had given only rs 15000 and had agreed to pay rs 10000 after four months.
in the marriage he had also given a gold chain a double bed an iron safe and other items.
he had called his son in law accused no 1to his house as per custom at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
later on the accused came to fetch deceased.
his daughter after the ramzan festival had informed him that the accused persons were harassing her and were even beating and abusing her.
all three accused used to beat her for the remaining amount of dowry.
it is stated by lw 3 that she knew all the accused persons as she was residing in the house of the accused and the deceased.
after bringing the soaps she went to the house of the accused persons and found that the accused was absent and the deceased was hanging on one side of the room.
after seeing this she raised cries and people came to the scene.
lw 4pathan inayatullah khan the grandson of lw 3went to the house of the parents of the deceased and informed them about the unfortunate incident.
lw 7 stated on oath that he was present at the time of giving of dowry to the accused by the family of the deceased.
he confirmed the fact that rs 15000 was given at the time of marriage and rs 10000 was to be given within some time which the father of the deceased failed to provide.
according to him the accused persons used to harass the deceased primarily for non payment of the amount of dowry as a result of which she was forced to commit suicide.
in fact there is no dispute to the fact that the deceased died of hanging.
dr m madhusudana reddy lw 13 who was the associate professor in forensic medicine at guntur medical college performed the post mortem over the body of the deceased.
in the medical report lw13he noticed oblique ligature mark of 17 x 2 5 cm present over front and left sides of neck as well as noticed abrasion 1 5 x 1 cm present over lower part of middle of chin.
lw 14 is a witness to the seizure of the body and she noticed injuries on the body of the deceased.
from the above evidence it is clear that the dowry demands were being raised by the accused persons persistently from the family of the deceased and for that they even harassed the deceased by beating and abusing her.
accused pathan hussain basha when he had gone to the parental house of the deceased demanded different items like fan ring and rs 1000 in cash and the balance of the agreed dowry amount.
in the case of biswajit halder alias babu halder and others v state of w b 2008 1 scc 202 2007 indlaw sc 304the court stated the ingredients of this provision as follows 10 the basic ingredients to attract the provisions of section 304 b are as follows.
1 the death of a woman should be caused by burns or fatal injury or otherwise than under normal circumstances 2 such death should have occurred within seven years of her marriage 3 she must have been subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband and 4 such cruelty or harassment should be for or in connection with demand for dowry.
12 explanation appended to section.
113 b lays down that for the purpose of this sectiondowry death shall have the same meaning as in section 304 b of indian penal code.
amongst others lapse of time between the date of marriage and the date of death is also a relevant consideration for the court while examining whether the essential ingredients of the provision are satisfied or not in a given case.
in the case of ashok kumar v state of haryana 2010 12 scc 350 2010 indlaw sc 502this court explained these terms in some elucidation and the effect of the deeming fiction appearing in the section as follows 11 the appellant was charged with an offence under section 304 b of the code.
explanation ii  the expression valuable security has the same meaning as in s 30 of the penal code 45 of 1860.
from the above definition it is clear thatdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly by one party to another by parents of either party to each other or any other person at before or at any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr under the muslim personal law.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
at this stage it will be appropriate to refer to certain examples showing what has and has not been treated by the courts as dowry.
as already noticed we need not deliberate on this aspect as the accused before us has neither been charged nor punished for that offence.
in our view the expression soon before her death can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
further the interpretation given should be one which would avoid absurd results on the one hand and would further the object and cause of the law so enacted on the other.
16 scc 155 2008 indlaw sc 1962 held that the legislative object in providing such a radius of time by employing the words soon before her death is to emphasise the idea that her death should in all probabilities has been the aftermath of such cruelty or harassment.
however the expression would normally imply that there has to be reasonable time gap between t he cruelty inflicted and the death in question.
if this is so the legislature in its wisdom would have specified any period which would attract the provisions of this section.
however there must be existence of proximate link between the acts of cruelty along with the demand of dowry and the death of the victim.
for want of any specific period the concept of reasonable period would be applicable.
in other words the rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved guilty.
in contradistinction to this aspect the legislature has applied the concept of deeming fiction to the provisions of section 304 b where other ingredients of section 304 b are satisfied in that event the husband or all relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death.
in other words the offence shall be deemed to have been committed by fiction of law.
applying these principles to the facts of the present case it is clear that the ingredients of section 304b read with section 498a ipc are completely satisfied in the present case.
by a deeming fiction in law the onus shifts on to the accused to prove as to how the deceased died.
it is for the accused to show that the death of the deceased did not result from any cruelty or demand of dowry by the accused persons.
denial can not be treated to be the discharge of onus.
onus has to be discharged by leading proper and cogent evidence.
maintaining silence can not be equated to discharge of onus by the accused.
in the present case the prosecution by reliable and cogent evidence has established the guilt of the accused.
his acquittal has not been challenged by the state before us thus we are not called upon to discuss this aspect of the matter.
accused pathan hussain basha and pathan nazeer abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
consequently we award ten years rigorous imprisonment to the appellants.
appeals partly allowed.
