leave granted in slp crl.
no 37372014.
devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.
sharda prasad tripathi is the husband of accused shashi tripathi.
on 25 11 2003when pw 1 dr.
sharda prasad tripathi came home from his clinic found that his daughter in law bhavna tripathi has been murdered.
he deposed in court that on 25 11 2003when he returned home he found servant anil kumar pw 21 was weeping.
bhavna was dead.
shashi was unconscious.
the accused raju.
devendra choubey was conducted on 26 12 2003 after his arrest.
a sealed packet containing hair found in the grip of the deceased and another sealed packet containing bloodstained cloth of the deceased were taken into possession vide exhibit p35.
no defence witness was examined after the statements of the accused were recorded u s 313 of the criminal procedure code1973.
she engaged the other accused for murdering bhavna.
bhavna was murdered on 25 11 2003 at about 1830 hours in the house where she resided with shashi tripathi.
3  cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3  cm.
cm x cm x  cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
internal injuries brain membrane pale lungs trachea pale punctured wound on right and left lungs of size 2 cm x 1 cm2  cm and 1 cm.
incised wound was also present on the right lobe of size 3 cm x 13 cm x 3 cm.
shashi tripathi had brought him home from bilaspur.
he deposed before the court that shashi didi accused brought him to village jevra from bilaspur.
he lived in the house of shashi didi.
he ate his food there and studied in a school.
jitendra is her step son and the deceased bhavna is the wife of jitendra.
she resided with shashi didi.
jitendra is a doctor resided and practiced at khamaria whereas his wife resided at jevra.
his brother shivendra studies at calcutta.
he stated that shashi didi and bhavna sometimes used to quarrel.
about the assault he deposed that devendra caught bhavna and chandra prakash attacked her with knife 3 to 4 times and she fell down.
mahesh the fourth accused was standing outside the house.
after the assault chandra prakash went to the tv room where shashi didi had kept some money in a rubber band on the table.
shashi didi thereafter started shouting.
devendra choubey accused no 4 by paying them money.
she also seems to have had a scuffle with bhavna which is apparent from the fact that her hair was found in the grip of the deceased during investigation.
in fact he even came to the court in the company of a police constable after being served summons at allahabad.
he had no grouse against her neither any ulterior motive in identifying the accused who were not acquainted to him.
merely because he has been some time in the company of the police at the police station his testimony can not be discarded as untrue.
pw 21 his statement that the accused chandra prakash attacked the deceased is corroborated by the recovery of knife from chandra prakash.
it was submitted that the test identification parade were delayed and the identification of these accused by the witness in court was not reliable.
mahesh and chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003their identification parade was conducted on 13 12 2003 within a fortnight or so.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
identification proceedings in their legal effect amount simply to this that certain persons are brought to jail or some other place and make statements either express or implied that certain individuals whom they point out are persons whom they recognise as having been concerned in the crime.
keeping in view the purpose of identification parades the magistrates holding them are expected to take all possible precautions to eliminate any suspicion of unfairness and to reduce the chance of testimonial error.
generally speaking the magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
he had no axe to grind against any of the accused.
in his deposition he specified the details of the part which the accused played with reasonable particularity.
state of andhra pradesh air 1983.
he did not even act as a guard because when the witness anil kumar pw 21 came to the house he was not even stopped by the accused from entering the house.
it is settled law that common intention and conspiracy are matters of inference and if while drawing an inference any benefit of doubt creeps in it must go to the accused vide baliya vs.
state of m p 2012.
on a careful conspectus of the facts and the law we are of the view that the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of mahesh beyond reasonable doubt.
no weapon was seized from him nor was any property connected with the crime seized.
having regard to the role attributed to him and the absence of incriminating factors we find that it is not safe to convict mahesh of the offence of murder with the aid of ss 34 and 120b.
his bail bonds stand cancelled and sureties are discharged.
in view of the above criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 is allowed and criminal appeal nos 822 of 2012589 of 2014 and criminal appeal arising out of slp criminal no 3737 of 2014 are dismissed.
appeals disposed of.
