the appellant is a trust which wanted to establish a self financing engineering college and submitted an application during 1994 95 to the university of kerala as well as to all india council for technical education hereinafter called the aicte.
there was an inspection by a team of professors of the university and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establish ing an engineering college.
the aicte sent a communication on 30 4 1995 stating that on the basis of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee and central task force as per the provisions of the aicte regulation dated 30 1 1994the aicte was granting conditional approval for establishing an engineering and technical college.
the abovesaid approval was subject to the fulfilment of specific conditions mentioned in annexure i and the general conditions mentioned in annexure ii to the said letter.
in the event of contravention of the conditions guidelines norms and regula tions of the aicte the aicte could withdraw the approval at any time.
under the impression that the state govt was to grant permission the appellant requested the state government by letter dated 24 6 1995 for permission to start the college.
meanwhile the mahatama gandhi university by their letter dated 31 5 1995 forwarded to the government a list of colleges and courses for affiliation during the academic year 1995 96 the appellant s college was shown as one of the colleges among the affiliated colleges for the said period.
the appellant sent a reminder to the government on 26 8 1995 for permission for starting the college for the academic year 1995 96 and ultimately the government refused permission by informing the appellant by a letter dated 16 8 1996 as follows.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
thereafter the appellant filed writ petition o p no 4612 of 1996 for quashing the said order and for a direction to sanction and establish an engineering college.
the direction to pass a fresh order of affiliation was issued in view of the fact that the university contended before the learned single judge that unless the government granted approval permanent affiliation could not be granted.
the government was also directed to reconsider its decision.
against the said judgment of the learned single judge the commis sioner and secretary of the government higher education department filed writ appeal no 1024 of 1997 the division bench of the high court allowed the appeal and set aside the order of the government and dismissed the writ petition.
the division bench however observed that the appellant was at liberty to make a fresh application to the government of kerala for according sanction for setting up the engineering college or to request the government to consider the earlier application for a future academic year.
learned senior counsel for the appellant.
iyer contended that the division bench erred in reversing the well considered judgment of the learned single judge and according to him after the coming into force of the aicte act1987the statutes conferring power on the state or university to the extent they were inconsistent with the central act were void.
in so far as institutions imparting technical education were concerned the university or the state government had no independent role to play except to the extent provided in the above said enactment in the present case the aicte had made inspections and was satisfied that the necessary infrastructure was available and that the appellant would be able to conform to the required standards of the education.
the aicte had consulted the state of kerala as well as the mahatama gandhi university.
the university had granted conditional approval as stated earlier.
therefore the aicte consti tuted a task force and obtained its opinion and thereafter granted its approval on 13 11 1995 subject to various conditions.
according to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the state government for any further sanction to establish the college.
it might be that under the relevant statutes of the university the university was required to obtain the views of the state government but that did not amount to requiring any approval of the state government and indeed if any such statute required the approval of the state government it would be void in view of what was stated by this court in state of tamil nadu.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
othersl995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
sri t l viswanatha iyer also contended that though the state government stated in its counter affidavit filed in the high court that the policy of the government was not to grant approval to self financing engineering colleges to be established such a policy could not come in the way of the appellant in view of what this court has stated in similar circumstances in thirumuruga kirupan variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858.
on the other hand learned additional solicitor general sri mukul rohtagi contended on behalf of the state of kerala that the policy of the state of kerala at the relevant time was not to grant approval for establish ment of more engineering colleges in the state.
even though the appellant trust was not seeking aid from the government and even assuming that it was financially self sufficient it would not be in the interests of the students employment to permit new engineering colleges to be established.
thus the government policy was not to grant fresh approvals.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
the following points arise for consideration 1.
whether in view of the judgment of this court in state of tamil nadu another v adhiyaman educational research institute others1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631the provisions of the aicte act1987 occupied the field and it was not necessary to obtain the further approval of the government or other authority.
whether any statute in the state of kerala if it required such approval would be void.
2 whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the aicte permission.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
regulations have been framed on 31st october1994 by the aicte in exercise of powers conferred on it by s 231 of the aicte act.
i the state government concerned ii the affiliating university state board of technical education iii bureaus mpcd iv bureau bos v bureau ra vi the regional office.
the tamil nadu case.
as stated earlier the above provisions of the aicte act came up for consideration in state of tamil nadu v adhiyaman educational research institute1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
this court then referred to the madras university act1923 it was held that s 10 of the central act dealt with various matters including granting approval for starting new technical institutionsand that so far as these matters were concerned.
statutory powers of the state of kerala and the m g university.
the question is as to how far the judgment in the tamil nadu case is to be applied in the state of kerala.
the reference to the commission in the above cl 97 is to the commission of inspection appointed by the university.
the commission was to inspect the site verify the title deeds as regards the proprietary right of the management over the land and buildings if any offered building accommodation provided if any assets of the management constitution of the registered body and all other relevant matters sub cl 2 of cl 9 stated that the affiliation shall depend upon the fulfilment by the management of all the conditions for the satisfactory establishment and maintenance of the proposed institutional courses of studies and on the reports of inspection by the commission or commissions which the university may appoint for the purpose.
as held in the tamil nadu case the central act of 1987 and in particular s 10k occupied the field relating the grant of approvals for establishing technical institutions and the provisions of the central act alone were to be complied with.
so far as the provisions of the mahatma gandhi university act or its statutes were concerned and in particular statute 97they merely required the university to obtain the views of the state government.
that could not be characterised as requiring the approval of the state government.
if indeed the university statute could be so inter preted such a provision requiring approval of the state government would be repugnant to the provisions of s 10k of the aicte act1987 and would again be void.
the state level committee and the central regional committees contained various experts and state representatives.
thus we hold in the present case that there was no statutory require ment for obtaining the approval of the state government and even if there was one it would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
state government was directed by the aicte to announce admission in accordance with regulation notified on 20 5 94 and based on the judgment of the supreme court in unnikrishnan v state of andhra pradesh1993 1 scc.
state government s refusal to grant permission is illegal and void on merits.
the director of technical education of the state was a member of the state level committee as per regulation 94 of the aicte regulations.
in case there was difference between the state government university or the regional committee the central task force was to make a final recommen dation under regulation.
in thirwnuruga kirupan and variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858which was a case relating to medical education and which also related to the effect of a central law upon a law made by the state under entry 25 list iii it was held that the essentiality certificate can not be withheld by the state government on any policy consideration because the policy in the matter of establishment of a new medical college now vests with the central government alone.
admittedly the university s inspection report was in favour of the appellant.
the university was also one of the agencies consulted by the council of the aicte under regulation 8 once that was over and approval was granted by the aicte if there was any default on the part of the college in compliance with the conditions of approval the only remedy for the univer sity was to bring those facts to the notice of the aicte so that the latter could take appropriate action.
for the aforesaid reasons we set aside the judgment of the division bench of the high court and uphold the reasoning of the learned single judge in his judgment in op 461296 dated 14 1 1997 we hold that the approval of the aicte was sufficient we do not also think that it was necessary for the learned single judge to direct the state government to reconsider its decision.
the petitioner was not a party in the high court of kerala and this special leave petition was filed with leave of this court.
it will be for the petitioner to have the said matter disposed of by the high court of delhi.
