these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
they having come to learn that certain vacancies exist in the respondent authority applied therefor although no advertisement in that behalf was issued.
the respondent authority appointed the appellants and posted them to an overseas project known as indore habitat project which was implemented through the agency of overseas development authority hereinafter referred to as the oda on daily wages.
rs 63 per day for the degree holders and rs 52 50 per day for the diploma holders.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
they were also being granted the benefit of leave.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
the said dispute was referred for adjudication of the labour court indore by the state of madhya pradesh on the following questions.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
if no then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
the parties filed their respective pleadings before the labour court and also adduced their respective evidences.
the labour court on the basis of the materials produced before it arrived at the following findings 1.
the appellants were appointed by the indore development authority.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
work has been taken by the respondent from all the appellants except four.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
the salary fixed by the commissioner was earlier given to all engineers and later on they were given the salary fixed by the collector.
there is no difference in their work and the work of the employees of indore development authority.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
our attention was also drawn to the application dated 22 10 1991 filed by one o p mandloi before the chairman of the indore development authority disclosing his educational qualifications and enclosing therewith the mark sheets and degrees obtained by him in civil engineering and also secondary school examination certificate to show his date of birth.
sd c e o 23 10 91.
furthermore from the reliefs claimed it would appear that the appellants had inter alia prayed for continuance of their services by the indore municipal corporation which knocks off the very basis of their claim.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
probationers iv badlies v apprentices and vi temporary.
the respondent authority is a state within the meaning of article.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
it is also not in dispute that the state government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the adhiniyam has made rules known as m p development authority services officers and servants recruitment rules 1987.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
the appointments of the appellants were therefore void ab initio being opposed to public policy as also violative of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
the answer thereto must be rendered in negative.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
all actions of the state must conform to the constitutional requirements.
ajay kumar 1997 4 scc 88 1997 indlaw sc 833 jawaharlal nehru krishi viswa vidyalaya jabalpur m p vs.
bal kishan soni and others 1997 5 scc 86 1997 indlaw sc 928.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
in this case except the nodal centre functions and supervision of the cooperative society the state has no administrative control over its day to day affairs.
it was therefore impermissible for the state to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
yet recently in pankaj gupta ors etc.
vs state of jammu kshmir ors.
jt 2004 8 sc 531 2004 indlaw sc 729 a division bench of this court opined no person illegally appointed or appointed without following the procedure prescribed under the law is entitled to claim that he should be continued in service.
in dr a k jain and others etc.
vs union of india and others 1987 supp.
1987 indlaw sc 28778 this court did not lay down any law.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
in niadar and another vs delhi administration and another 1992 4 scc 112 1988 indlaw sc 244 again no law has been laid down.
by reason of the provisions of the said act application of standard standing orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the standard standing orders have been specified.
1 continue in force as if they were made under this act.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
the terms of conditions of service contained in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules are not in derogation of the provisions contained in schedule appended to the 1961 act.
the 1961 act provides for classification of employees in five categories.
the 1973 act as noticed hereinbefore clearly mandates that all posts should be sanctioned by the state government and all appointments to the said cadre must be made by the state government alone.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
the recruitments of the appellants do not fall in any of the said categories.
grant of such ticket was imperative before permanency could be so claimed.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
vis a vis the 1973 act and the rules framed thereunder.
but in absence of any conflict in the provisions of the said act the conditions of service including those relating to recruitment as provided for in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules would apply.
we have noticed the provisions of the act and the rules.
presumably the appellants were aware of the statutory limitations in this behalf.
furthermore the labour court having derived its jurisdiction from the reference made by the state government it was bound to act within the four corners thereof.
it could not enlarge the scope of the reference nor could deviate therefrom.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
the distinction although appears to be attractive at the first blush but does not stand a moment s scrutiny.
the project was indisputably to be executed by the indore development authority and for the implementation thereof the appointments had to be made by it.
in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra this court held that once the employees are employed for the purpose of the scheme they do not acquire any vested right to continue after the project is over.
see also karnataka state coop.
amar singh and others 2003 5 scc 388 2003 indlaw sc 331.
it is accepted at the bar when the endorsement on the application filed by om prakash mondloi was shown that the appointment letters were not issued.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court s view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
presumption as to adverse inference for non production of evidence is always optional and one of the factors which is required to be taken into consideration in the background of facts involved in the lis.
the presumption thus is not obligatory because notwithstanding the intentional non production other circumstances may exist upon which such intentional non production may be found to be justifiable on some reasonable grounds.
in the instant case the industrial tribunal did not draw any adverse inference against the appellant.
it was within its jurisdiction to do so particularly having regard to the nature of the evidence adduced by the respondent.
they were not appointed in terms of the provisions of the statute.
they were not therefore entitled to take the recourse of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work as adumbrated in articles 14 and 39d of the constitution of india.
the burden was on the appellants to establish that they had a right to invoke the said doctrine in terms of article 14 of the constitution of india.
see orissa university of agriculture technology and another vs manoj k mohanty 2003 5 scc 188 2003 indlaw sc 348.
in state of haryana and another vs tilak raj and others 2003 6 scc 123 2003 indlaw sc 512 it was held a scale of pay is attached to a definite post and in case of a daily wager he hold no posts.
for the reasons aforementioned we do not find any merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.
