aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
under show cause notices it was alleged that the appellants herein assessee have sold the biscuits under the brand name meghrajwhich was a registered trade mark of kay aar biscuits p ltd who was using the said trade mark on manufacture of biscuits themselves and therefore the appellants were not eligible to the benefit of ssi notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 1993 as amended by notification no 5994 ce dated 1 3 1994.
the above show cause notices were issued by the department demanding differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992 the said demand was based on an agreement detected by the department.
that agreement was between madan verma director of a company known as m s.
ltd ghaziabad and m s rich food products p ltd noida.
under the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was.
party no 1 under the agreement.
it was declared that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
it was stated that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was using the aforestated trade mark meghraj for the manufacture of biscuits.
under the agreement there was a recital under which it was stated that m s.
ltd had put up a unit for manufacture of wafers in noida which it sought to manufacture under the brand name meghraj.
the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd gave permission to m s rich food products pvt.
ltd to use its trade mark for the manufacture of wafers alone.
the said agreement was valid for three years commencing from 22 11 1989.
at this stage it may be noted that the appellants herein claim to have started manufacture of biscuits in 1991 the biscuits were sold in wrapper mentioning the name of the appellantsm s.
the appellants claimed that it has been using the wrapper since beginning and since 1991 the use of the trade name or brand name meghraj has never been challenged.
the assistant commissioner ghaziabad examined the printed wrappers.
he came to the conclusion vide his orders that the trade name meghraj was in the form of a logo printed on the wrapper of the biscuits and therefore the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 as amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 consequently the adjudicating authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992.
aggrieved by the decision of the adjudicating authority the assessee preferred appeals to the commissioner a the said appeals were rejected on the ground that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj of another manufacturer m s kay aar biscuits p ltd on their products biscuits and therefore they were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
it was held that the word meghraj was printed on all the printed wrappers and therefore it was wrong to say that the appellants were not using the brand name meghraj on its products.
in this connection reliance was placed by the commissioner a on the said agreement dated 22 11 89 before the commissioner a the appellants herein contended that they had used the name m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd on the wrapper and not on the product.
and therefore they were entitled to exemption.
this argument was rejected by the commissioner a saying that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj on their products.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
before the commissioner ait was argued in the alternative that the logo belonged to m s.
accordingly the commissioner a dismissed the appeals.
the orders of the commissioner a have been confirmed by order dated 11 4 2000 passed by cegat.
rich food products p ltd would not be sufficient to prove that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the lawful owner of the brand name.
by order dated 8 12 2000cegat rejected the above rectification application made by the appellants.
notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 was issued to help the ssi units to survive in the market dominated by brand name trade name.
the object of the notification therefore was to help the ssi units and thereby increased industrial production.
under para 4 of the said notification the benefit of exemption was not available for excisable goods bearing brand name or trade name registered or not of another person.
this aspect is important since one of the arguments advanced by the appellants herein before the commissioner a was that the trade mark belonged to m s ltd which was registered ssi unit lying closed since 1 3 1993.
on behalf of the appellants it has been vehemently argued that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was never the registered owner of the trade mark meghraj.
it was urged that a false declaration was made by m s kay aar biscuits p ltd under the above agreement on 22 11 89.
in the case of pahwa chemicals pvt.
ltd v.
commissioner of central excise delhi 2005 189.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
in the case of commissioner of central excise chandigarh v bhalla enterprises 2004.
applying the above test to the facts of the present case madan verma is a common director in the two companies.
he has filed an affidavit enclosing the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000.
discontinuation of business in respect of a product does not necessarily amount to abandonment.
in the circumstances the department was right in rejecting the above contention.
the trade marks act1999 has been enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to trade marks to provide for registration and better protection of trade marks and for prevention of the use of fraudulent marks.
u s 28 of the trade marks act1999registration gives to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the trade marks act.
it is correct to say that the registrar trade marks can issue registration certificate u s 28 of the trade marks act with retrospective effect.
the question before us is what is the effect of issuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect.
this question has been decided by the bombay high court in the case of sunder parmanand lalwani and others v caltex india ltd air 1969 bombay 24 1965 indlaw mum 1419 in which it has been held vide paras 32 and 38 as follows a proprietary right in a mark can be obtained in a number of ways.
the effect of the relevant provision of the english acts was that registration of a trade mark would be deemed to be equivalent to public user of such mark.
we have already reached a conclusion that so far as this country is concerned degoumois co have totally disclaimed any interest in the proprietorship of that mark for watches etc.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
it is confined to the provisions of the trade marks act.
in the case of consolidated foods corporation v brandon and co.
even if it is found to be necessary to decide this question as to property in a trade mark i have already pointed out that the courts of equity in england granted relief in cases of infringement of trade marks on the basis of infringement of the right of property in the trade mark.
that was enough in the eyes of the courts of equity to entitle him to a relief by way of an injunction in case of an infringement of his mark by some other trader.
the latter type of mark would evidently refer to a distinctive mark a mark which does not directly describe the nature or quality of the goods to which it is attached.
even so far as this country is concerned the trade marks act of 1940 does not seem to have made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark as established by the courts of chancery in england.
in in re century spinning and manufacturing co ltd.
instead of compelling the holder of a trade mark in every case to prove his proprietary right before he could ask the court to grant him an injunction the trade marks act provides a procedure whereby by registering his trade mark the owner gets certain facilities in the mode of proving his title.
for instance under s 23 of the trade marks act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark.
to summarise therefore a trader acquires a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with his goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade.
gaw kan lye v saw kyone saing air 1939.
it does however facilitate a remedy which may be enforced and obtained throughout the state and it established the record of facts affecting the right to the mark.
registration itself does not create a trade mark.
the trade mark exists independently of the registration which merely affords further protection under the statute.
priority in adoption and use of a trade mark is superior to priority in registration.
the respondent company is described as the sole distributors on the label.
applying the principle of deemed equivalence we may clarify that if the ssi unit wrongly affixes a trade mark of another person be it registered or not or if it uses the trade mark of an ineligible person then such default would not be eliminated by the above principle of deemed equivalence embodied in s 28 of the trade marks act1999 as that principle is based on a deeming fiction which fiction is confined only to the provisions of the trade marks act.
305 2006 indlaw sc 546 in that matter a show cause notice was issued calling upon the assessee to show cause why the exemption be not denied to the assessee.
in para 19 of the show cause notice the authority accepted the existence of a deed of assignment.
however the show cause notice denied the exemption on the ground that notification no 14083 ce did not make any distinction between a brand name owned by a person in india or abroad.
in the circumstances the judgment of this court in the case of bigen industries 2006 indlaw sc 546 supra has no application.
accordingly the civil appeals stand dismissed with no order as to costs.
