this appeal by special leave is directed against order dated 13 7 2005 passed by the division bench of the bombay high court.
dismissing letter patents appeal preferred by the appellant against the order of the learned single judge who dismissed his writ petition and confirmed the orders passed by the state minister for revenue in the proceeding r t s 3402 pra kra 309 l 6 dated 18th october2002.
it is the appellant s case that his father shri nawoosingh panjumal panjwani was a displaced person who migrated from pakistan to india during the period of partition and the appellant s family while in pakistan was having agricultural land over there admeasuring 4 acres 10 gunthas.
after migration the family took shelter at refugee camp of pimpri pune in maharashtra.
in view of enactment of displaced persons compensation and rehabilitation act1954 by the union of india the immovable properties left behind by muslims who had migrated to pakistan were acquired and the same was distributed to displaced persons as a compensation pool.
accordingly father of the appellant was allotted a land admeasuring 2 acres 5 gunthas bearing revenue survey nos 351 and 1182 situated at village lonavala taluka maval district pune.
it has been pleaded by the appellant that survey no 1181 and 1182 are one and the same thing.
the facts in brief as narrated in the impugned order are that survey nos 118328 and 351 of lonavala were originally owned by one haji habib tar mohammed janu.
the said haji habib tar mohammed janu migrated to pakistan and while going to pakistan he sold his property to one smt.
hajrabi haji yusuf on 4 6 1949 however this transaction was cancelled by the collector and custodian of evacuee property on 17 4 1949 as per section 8i of the evacuee properties act and these lands were accordingly entered as evacuee property by the tahsildar maval on 26 10 1949 it appears that these survey numbers were also given c t s no 129130 a130 b and 133.
it appears that in cts no 129130 a130 b and 133apart from vacant land there is a bungalow no 52 habib villa.
it appears that the regional settlement commissioner placed this property for auction through government auctioner and one gulabbai desaipurchased the said property in auction for a consideration of rs 16750 on 17 5 1956 and accordingly sale certificate was issued by the regional settlement commissioner bombay on behalf of the government.
the area of this cts nos were as under.
on the basis of the said sale certificate the mutation entry no 1836 was effected in the village record in favour of gulabai desai and thereby her name was entered in survey nos 1181b and 328 of village lonavala to the extent of 29 30 ares and 70 ares respectively.
thereafter gulabai sold cts no 133 admeasuring 33 gunthas on 24 4 1977 to respondent no 3 genu kadu.
the said gulabai also gifted her remaining area from this survey numbers to her grandson anil gajanan desai on 15 1 1979who in turn has sold his properties to respondent no 2.
prem hasmatraj lalwani in the year 1980.
the survey nos 1182 and 351being evacuee properties were allotted to the appellant in the year 1956 later on it was found that the appellant is in possession of more area and therefore the said order was modified on 6 5 1982 and excess area was granted to the appellant on payment of rs 31360 which appellant had paid on 17 5 1982 in government treasury and thereby the deputy collector and assistant settlement commissioner pune granted the excess land to the appellant and thereafter the dispute started between the parties.
however in the facts of the conflicting claims the appellant made grievance to the deputy collector and the deputy custodian of evacuee properties in respect of the mutation made in favour of the respondent gulabai and other respondents and therefore by order dated 18 9 1984 the deputy collector and deputy custodian of evacuee properties pune directed the sub divisional officer haveli sub division to take up the case in revision under section 257 of maharashtra land revenue code and pass necessary orders.
in view of these directions the sub divisional officer haveli sub division pune initiated proceeding rts revision 14 of 1984 and by order dated 30 7 1985 cancelled the mutation entry no 1836 which comprises land admeasuring 7897 sq yards and directed necessary corrections in the record as per the observations made in the order.
it appears that the said order was taken in appeal by the respondent and the matter was remanded to the sub divisional officer.
therefore the rts appeal no 128 of 1987 was preferred before the collector which was disposed off by the additional collector on 13 7 1993 by the said order the order of the third sub divisional officer was maintained.
however further inquiry as directed by the sdo was to be conducted.
the directions were issued by the collector to the tahsildar to place the appellant in possession of the property as per the orders of the deputy collector and the deputy custodian of evacuee properties.
collector pune dismissed the said appeals and confirmed the order of the sub divisional officer maval.
the said revision was decided by the additional commissioner pune by order dated 22 11 2001 and the said revision was dismissed.
appellant challenged the order dated 19 10 2002 passed by the minister by filing a writ petition which was dismissed by learned single judge of the bombay high court.
thereafter the appellant filed letters patent appeal which was also dismissed by the division bench holding that when the state minister for revenue entertained the matter he was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
that under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code more than one revision is possible.
mr huzefa ahmadi learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant mainly attacked the revisional power exercised by the minister concerned in purported exercise of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code.
section 257 makes it clear that a revisional authority has to consider only the legality and propriety of the decision.
learned counsel relied upon the decision of this court in the case of state of kerala vs k m charia abdulla co air 1965.
sc 1585 1964 indlaw sc 353 and hari shankar vs rao girdhari lal chowdhury air 1963 sc 698 1961 indlaw sc 157.
that a second revision to the high court under section 482 of the cr.
learned counsel submitted that the commissioner or the additional commissioner is not equal in a rank but subordinate to the state government.
learned counsel submitted that the state government is the supreme revenue authority and existence of more than one appeal or revision to an aggrieved party is not per se abhorrent to any legal principle depends upon the statute.
the collector may appoint to each district as many persons as he thinks fit to be circle officers and circle inspectors to be in charge of a circle and one or more talathis for a saza and one or more kotwals or other village servants for each village or group of villages as he may deem fit.
section 11 of the code is worth to be quoted herein.
below 11 subordination of officers.
from reading of the aforesaid provisions it is manifest that the state government makes appointment of the revenue officers including the commissioner and the chief controlling authorities in the revenue matters.
the language and the words used in the said provision suggest that jurisdiction of the state government is concurrent with the jurisdiction of other revenue officers in deciding the revision.
further in view of the fact that state government itself appoints the revenue officers including the commissioner under the scheme of the code and all revenue officers are subordinate to the state government as per section 11 of the act and even the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division is vested with the commissioner they are subject to the superintendence direction and control of the state government as provided under section 5 of the code.
a similar question came for consideration before this court in the case of ishwar singh vs 2 scc 334 under the rajasthan cooperative societies act1965 in that ac t by section 128 power was conferred upon the state government and the registrar to call for and examine the records of any enquiry or proceedings of any other matter of any officer subordinate to them for the purpose of satisfying themselves as to the legality or propriety of any decision or order passed by such officer.
the power of the government and the registrar in terms of section 128 excludes matters which are covered by section 125 i e revision by the tribunal.
considering the entire scheme of the code and the provisions contained in sections 257 and 259we are of the definite opinion that the minister concerned of the state government can entertain second revision to satisfy the legality and propriety of the order passed by the revenue officer.
the division bench of the bombay high court has elaborately discussed the question and passed the impugned order holding that section 257 confers jurisdiction to the state government to entertain its revision against the order passed by any revenue officer either in appeal or in revision.
we find no infirmity in the impugned order passed by the high court.
before parting with the order we must make it clear that in view of the request made by the appellant before the high court not to enter into the merit of the case since the party may prosecute their remedies in the civil court for adjudication we have not expressed any opinion with regard to the merit of the case of the parties.
the parties may prosecute their remedies in civil court in accordance with law.
