Appeal No 1940 of 1967.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated April 17 27 1967 of the Gujarat High Court in Civil Revision Application 328 of 1967.
section T Desai and I N Shroff for the appellants.
M P Amin P M Amin P N Dua and J B Dadachanji for respondent No 1.
R P Kapur for respondents Nos 2 and 3.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
By insistence upon procedural wrangling in a com paratively simple suit pending in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad the parties have effectively prevented all progress in the suit during the last six years.
A building in the town of Ahmedabad used as a cinematograph theatre belonged originally to Messrs Popatlal Punjabhai.
estate of the owners and on August 19 1954 the receivers estate of the owners and on August 19 1954 The receivers granted a lease of the theatre on certain terms and conditions to two persons Raval and Faraqui.
By an agreement dated November 27 1954 between Raval and Faraqui on the one hand and Messrs Filmistan Distributors India Private Ltd hereinafter called Filmistan on the other hand right to exhibit cinematograph films was granted to the latter on certain terms and conditions.
Filmistan instituted suit No 149 of 1960 in the Court of the Civil Judge Senior Division at Ahmedabad against Raval and Faraqui and two other persons claiming a declaration that it 437 was entitled pursuant to the agreement dated November 27 1954 to exhibit motion pictures in the theatre.
By an order dated December 1 1960 the suit was disposed of as compromised.
It was inter alia agreed that Raval and Faraqui were bound and liable to allow Filmistan to exercise its exhibition rights in the theatre that Raval and Faraqui their servants and agents were not to have any right to exhibit any picture in contravention of the terms and conditions of the agreement dated November 27 1954 and that Raval and Faraqui shall execute and register an agreement in writing incorporating the said agreement with the variation as to rental.
Pursuant to this agreement a fresh agreement was executed on December 1 1960.
On September 1 1963 Filmistan filed suit No 1465 of 1963 in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad inter alia for a declaration that as sub lessee or as lessee under law it was entitled to obtain and remain in possession of the theatre and to exhibit cinematograph films and to hold entertainment performances etc.
in the theatre and that one Shabeer Hussain Khan Tejabwala had no right title or interest in the theatre that the defendants in the suit be ordered to hand over vacant and peaceful possession of the theatre and the defendants their servants and agents be restrained by an injunction from interfering directly or indirectly with its rights to obtain and remain in possession of the theatre or any part thereof and to exercise its right of exhibiting motion pictures and entertainment performances etc.
This suit was filed against the receivers in insolvency of the owners of the theatre against Raval and Faraqui against Tejabwala and also against Baldevdas Shivlal who claimed to be the owner of the theatre.
The suit was based on the claim by Filmistan as lessees or sub lessees of the theatre and was exclusively triable by the Court of Small Causes by virtue of section 28 of the Bombay Rents Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act 1947.
Three sets of written statements were filed against the claim made by Filmistan but no reference need be made thereto since at this stage in deciding appeal the merits of the pleas raised by the defendants are not relevant.
After issues were raised on June 20 1966 the plaint was amended and additional written statements were filed by the Defendants.
The learned Judge was then requested to frame three additional issues in view of the amended pleadings  the issues were 1.
Whether in view of the said consent decree in suit No 149 of 1960 defendants Nos 5 and 6 are debarred on principles of res judicata from agitating the question that the said document dated November 27 1954 as confirmed by their letter dated January 31 L13 Sup.
CI69 17 438 1955 and further confirmed by document dated December 1 1960 is not a lease 12.
Filmistan then applied to the Court of Small Causes for an order that issues Nos 11 12  13 be tried as preliminary issues.
The learned Judge observed that the issues were not purely of law that in any event the case or any part thereof was not likely to be disposed of on these issues and that ordinarily in appealable cases the Court should as far as possible decide all the issues together and that piecemeal trial might result in protracting the litigation.
He also observed that the issues were not of law going to the root of the case and were on that account not capable of being decided without recording evidence.
A revision application against that order was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Gujarat.
Thereafter elaborate arguments were advanced and the Trial Judge passed an order disallowing the objection.
The objection to the question raised by Filmistan was not that it related to a matter to be decided by the Court and on which the opinion of witnesses was irrelevant.
Filmistan feeling dissatisfied with the order invoked the revisional jurisdiction of the High Court of Gujarat under section 115 of  the Code of Civil Procedure.
It is not open to any Court of law to try an issue over again or reopen the same if an earlier decision operates as res judicata.
The learned Judge will not proceed with the trial.
By section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure the High Court is invested with power to call for the record of any case decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereo if such subordinate court appears a to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law or b to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or c to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity and to make such order in the case as it thinks fit.
442 This Court observed in Major section section Khanna vs Brig.
GC Appeal allowed.
