If a partition were to take place during Khandappa s lifetime between himself and his two sons the plaintiff would have got 14th share in the joint family properties the other three getting 14th share each.
Khandappa s 14th share would devolve upon his death on six sharers the plaintiff and her five children each having a 124th share therein.
Adding 14th and 124th the plaintiff claims a 724th share in the joint family properties.
Defendants 2 to 5 admitted the plaintiff s claim the suit having H been contested by defendant 1 Gurupad only.
He contended that the suit properties did not belong to the joint family that they were Khandappa s self requisitions and that on the date of Khandappa s 764 death in 1960 there was no joint family in existence.
He alleged that Khandappa had effected a partition of the suit properties between himself and his two sons in December 1952 and December 1954 and that by a family arrangement dated March 31 1955 he bad given directions for disposal of the share which was reserved by him for himself in the earlier partitions.
became indisputably entitled to a share in the joint family properties but following the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Shiramabai Bhimgonda vs Kalgonda1 the learned trial judge limited that share to 124th refusing to add 14th and 124th together.
By a judgment dated March 19 1975 a Division Bench of the High Court dismissed defendant 1 s appeal and allowed the plaintiff s cross objections by holding that the suit properties belonged to the joint family that there was no prior partition and that the plaintiff is entitled to a 724th share.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
Another Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji2 had already reconsidered and dissented from earlier Division Bench judgment in Shiramabai Bhimgonda1 In these two cases the judgment of the Bench was delivered by the same learned Judge Patel J.
On further consideration the learned Judge felt that Shiramabai1 was not fully argued and was incorrectly decided and that on a true view of law the widow s share must be ascertained by adding the share to which she is entitled at a notional partition during her husband s life time and the share which she would get in her husband s interest upon his death.
That section reads thus 6.
LR351.
Explanation 2.
Nothing contained in the proviso to this section shall be construed as enabling a person who has separated himself from the coparcenary before the death of the deceased or any of his heirs to claim on intestacy a share in the interest referred to therein.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
By the application of the normal rule prescribed by that section Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
Before considering the implications of Explanation 1 it is necessary to remember that what section 6 deals with is devolution of the interest which a male Hindu has in a Mitakshare coparcenary property at 766 the time of his death.
In the instant case the plaintiff s suit based as it is on the provisions of section 6 is essentially a claim to obtain a share in the interest which her husband had at the time of his death in the coparcenary property.
The proviso to section 6 contains the formula for fixing the share of the claimant while Explanation 1 contains a formula for deducing the share of the deceased.
