Both these challenge the order of detention dated 2nd January 1986 passed by the respondent no1.
The District Magistrate Dhanbad in respect of the petitioner under section 32 of the  hereinafter called the Act  on the ground that the petitioner s activities were prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.
Several criminal cases had been filed against the petitioner between 3rd January 1983 to 18th February 1985.
On or about 2nd January 1985 the order of detention was passed on an incident relating to the exchange of fire between two rival groups.
The order states the grounds as follows 1.
Birendra Pratap Singh and his associates who were there also returned the firing in same manner.
As a result of this firing one innocent namely Brahamdeo Mishra was killed.
The exchange of indiscriminate firing in the main market area of Katras created great panic and alarm in the area.
Doors and windows were closed.
Besides the aforesaid ground the following cases are also referred hereunder as background to show the criminality of the subject.
In this case subject and his associates opened fire on police party who went to apprehend Raghunath Singh absconder under NSA.
As a result of this indiscriminate firing by him and his associates one Police officer namely Shri RK Verma received serious head injury and is still incapable to work.
Sri Sisir Rajan Das however acceded to their request and started dancing.
It is the case of the detenu that the order of detention was made on one incident relating to exchange of fire between two rival groups.
By letter dated 22nd February 1986 the petitionerappellant was informed that the Advisory Board had confirmed the order of detention.
The petitioner appellant thereafter filed a writ petition in the High Court of Patna which was dismissed without any speaking order.
The petitioner appellant was in detention when the petitionerappellant was served with the order of detention.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate the detaining authority it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner s brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
It further appears from the affidavit f f the District Magistrate filed before the High Court of Patna that the petitioner was absconding from the very day of the issuance of the detention order.
All the documents which formed the basis of detention were supplied to the detenu.
