TS Krishnamurthy lyer MJ Paul and Kailash Vasudev for the Appellant.
A very interesting question comes up for consideration in this appeal.
The question to be ultimately decided falls within a very narrow compass but it is neces sary to set out the facts leading to the present appeal at some length.
It belonged to several co owners.
P 1 was dated 229.
The second lease deed Ext.
In respect of item 2 the fair rent claimed was Rs326650 as against Rs200 pm payable under the lease deed.
They claimed that under both the lease deeds what had been leased out to them was only a vacant land and that the superstructure had been built by them.
They claimed there fore that they were entitled to relief under the Madras 550 City Tenants  Protection Act and that the Rent Controller Court had no jurisdiction to fix a fair rent.
So far as item 2 was concerned it appears that at the time of the hearing it was conceded before the Rent Controller that the respondents were tenants of the entire properties covered by the lease deed and that they had not constructed any of the premises thereupon.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 93.
There were appeals to the Court of Small Causes.
The fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller at Rs994 pm was upheld.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20111968.
It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not in law create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
The Rent Controller was therefore held to have had juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect of the premises.
The tenants filed an appeal being OSA No 62 of 1973.
In view of this finding it was held that the Rent Controller had no jurisdiction to entertain the application for fixation of fair rent in respect of the property which was only a vacant piece of land.
In conse quence it was held the LIC could not maintain the suit for recovery of rent based on the order made by the statutory tribunal under the Rent Control Act and claim the difference between the so called fair rent and the contract rent.
The claim of the LIC for recovery of Rs3922471 as arrears of rent in respect of item 1 was thus held to be not maintain able.
The second is that though the claim in issue before us is only a money claim for arrears of rent any decision given by us based as it will have to be on the issue whether the LIC owns the superstructure or not and whether the tenants are the les sees only of vacant land or of both land and buildings will have repercussions not only on the claim in this suit which by now has accummulated to more than Rs3 lakhs but also on any other proceedings by way of ejectment or otherwise which the LIC may have in contemplation against the tenants.
The Rent Controller and on appeal the Court of Small Causes were therefore called upon to give their decision on this question which was completely within their statutory jurisdiction and this decision certainly constitutes res judicata between the parties see also Explanation VIII to section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
The appellant landlord had filed an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act without giving notice under section 111h of the which in those days was considered to be a condition precedent even to the filing of an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act and ob tained an order of eviction.
vs Smt.
