From the Judgment and Order dated 32.
Counsel state that the facts in all these appeals are identical and that the only facts neces sary or atleast on record before us on the basis of which the issue us is to be decided are these Each of the appellants petitioners hereinafter referred to compendi ously as assessees  is a registered dealer in the State of Haryana.
He purchased certain raw materials in the State without paying tax thereon in view of the provision con tained in section 24 of the Act.
He then manufactured certain goods in the State with the aid of said raw materials.
On these facts it is claimed the assessee is not liable to pay the purchase tax on the raw materials imposed under section 91 of the Act.
This claim has been rejected by the taxing authorities and the High Court and hence these appeals.
The writ petitions have been filed directly in this Court in view of a learned single Judge of the High Court having decided the issue against the assessees as early as 2511.
Section 2e a Originally section 2e defined export  to mean the taking out of goods from the State to any place outside it otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce.
141976 or in the course of export out of the territory of India.
Explanation 2 to the second defini tion provided 2 The proceeds of the sale of any goods on the purchase of which tax is leviable under this Act or the purchase value of any goods on the sales of which tax is leviable under this Act shall not be included in the turnover but the purchase value of the goods liable to tax under section 9 shall be included.
c Act 1 of 1990 has amended the above Explanation retrospectively to say that the words but the purchase value of the goods liable to tax under section 9 or section 24 shall be included shall be omitted and shall be deemed always to have been omitted with effect from 275.
p of section 2.
1983 which reads 6 The purchase of barley or of goods used in the manufac ture of guar gum scientific goods utensils and metal handicrafts shall not form part of the turnover of a dealer for the period he is entitled to purchase the goods on the authority of his certificate of registration without payment of sales tax under section 24 provided these are used exclusively for the specified purposes.
Section 6 Section 6 the charging section read as under 6.
Incidence of taxation 1 Subject to other provisions of this Act every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum Defined in section 7 shall be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of this Act.
Provided that this section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Goods on which no tax is leviable section 6 read with section 15.
XXX XXX XXX Explanation For the purposes of sub section 1 and 2 purchased shall mean the purchase of declared As defined in section 2c of the  goods speci fied in Schedule C and goods falling under section 9.
1971 section 6 Incidence of taxation 1 Every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the coming into force of the provisions of this section exceeded the taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of the provi sions of this section.
The section originally read thus section 9 Liability to pay purchase tax Where a dealer pur chases goods other than those specified in the Schedule B from any source in the State and a uses them in the State in the manufacture of i goods specified in Schedule B or ii any other goods and disposes of the manufac tured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale whether within the State or in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export out of the territory of India 350 b exports them in the circumstances in which no tax is payable under any other provision of this Act there shall be levied subject to the provisions of section 17 a tax on the purchase of such goods at such rate as may be notified under section 15.
