These two appeals by special leave raise a common question of law and that is whether business losses incurred in the erstwhile State of Cochin could under the Income tax Act of Travancore be set off against the business profits made in the erstwhile State of Travancore.
But this question was not answered by the High Court which confined itself to answering the first question which was common to both the appeals.
The appellant before us in both the appeals is the Commissioner of Income tax and the respondents are the two assessees in one case a Bank and the other a private limited company.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 321 and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act hereinafter called the Travancore Act.
The assessee s appeal to the Income tax Commissioner was unsuccessful but the Appellate Tribunal held that the banking business of the assessee being one and indivisible for the purpose of determining the amount assessable to income tax it was entitled to deduct the losses incurred outside Travancore State from the profits accruing and arising in that State.
It was carrying on business at its head office in Cochin State and it also carried on business in Travancore State.
This was not allowed by the Income tax Officer and on appeal this order was confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
The Appellate Tribunal also did not accept the submissions of the assessee and upheld the order of assessment.
The Commissioner has come up in appeal pursuant to special leave against both these judgments.
It may be stated that the relevant sections of the Travancore Act which govern the two appeals are identically worded with those of the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 to be called the Indian Act.
The corresponding sections are as follows Headings Sections in Section in Travancore Act.
Indian Act.
Application of the Act 4 4 Head of income charge able to income tax 9 6 Business 13 10 Exemptions of a gene ral nature 18 14 Set off of loss in com puting aggregate in come 32 24 261 It is only necessary to set out section 321 of the Travancore Act and the proviso which correspond to section 241 and proviso i of the Indian Act and which are necessary for the decision of the appeals before us S321  Where any assessee sustains a loss of profits or gains in any year under any of the heads mentioned in Section 9 Section 6 he shall be entitled to have the amount of loss set off against this income profits or gains under any other head in that year Provided that where the loss sustained is a loss of profits or gains which would but for the loss have accrued or arisen within British India or in an Indian State and would under the provisions of clause e of sub section 2 of Section 18 Section 142c  have been exempted from tax such loss shall not be set off except against profits or gains accruing or arising within British India or in an Indian State and exempt from tax under the said provisions .
Sections in brackets are the corresponding sections of the Indian Act.
Rhondda Urban Council vs Taff Vale Railway 2.
Under section 215 of the Act total income  was defined to mean the total amount of income profits and gains computed in the manner laid down in that Act.
