From the Judgment and Order dated 1971979 of the Rajasthan High Court in DB Civil Writ Petition No 769 of 1979.
Subhash Mallick and SK Jain for the Appellant.
BD Sharma for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by YOGESHWAR DAYALJ.
This is an appeal against the judgment of the Rajasthan High Court dated 19th July 1979 passed in DB Civil Writ Petition No 681 of 1978 Raghubir Singh vs The Board of Revenue for Rajasthan and others and DB Civil Writ Petition No 769 of 1979 Surendrapal Singh vs The Board of Revenue for Rajasthan and others.
These writ petitions were decided by the aforesaid common judgment.
The first writ petition was filed by the father Raghubir Singh whereas the second writ petition was filed by his minor son Surendrapal Singh through his next friend Shri Jagjit Singh maternal grand father of the minor.
The relief claimed in both the petitions before the High Court was the same namely for setting aside of the order dated 6th August 1977 passed by the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan Ajmer.
The Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh by his order dated 10th August 1972 determined the ceiling area but an appeal by Raghubir Singh the Revenue Appellate Authority set aside the order of the sub Divisional Officer on March 6 1973 and remanded the case.
The matter was taken to the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan by a revision application and the Board by its order dated 14th April 1975 directed that the ceiling area for Raghubir Singh may be determined according to the old law ie Act of 1955 and not according to the new law ie Rajasthan Imposition of Ceiling on Agricultural Holding Act 1973 hereinafter referred to as the Act of 1973.
In pursuance of the direction of the Board the Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh by his order dated 5th May 1976 held that Surendrapal Singh appellant herein aged 12 years was a minor son of Raghubir Singh and used to 725 study in Punjab and further held that the land in possession of Raghubir Singh was ancestral.
The Sub Divisional Officer then came to the conclusion that the father and the son constitute two separate units and each one of them was entitled to get 62 Bighas and 8 Biswas.
It was thus held that Raghubir Singh and his son Surendrapal Singh are entitled to retain 124 Bighas and 16 Biswas only and the surplus land measuring 4 Bighas and 6 Biswas may be resumed.
Aggrieved by the order of the Sub Divisional Officer Raghubir Singh filed appeal before the Revenue Appellate Authority Bikaner who by his order dated 6th September 1976 dismissed the same and upheld the order of the Sub Divisional Officer.
Dissatisfied with the order of the Revenue Appellate Authority Raghubir Singh filed a revision application under Section 230 of the Act of 1955 before the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan.
On behalf of raghubir Singh it was urged before the Board that the petitioner was in possession of 112 Bighas only and not 129 Bighas and 3 Biswas as held by the lower courts.
He sought permission to adduce additional evidence in support of his contention.
The application for adducing additional evidence was disallowed.
However the member of the Board came to the conclusion that Surendrapal Singh appellant here in was born to Raghubir Singh on 14th March 1963 and was only 13 years of age when the ceiling proceedings were finalized by the Sub Divisional Officer on 5th May 1976.
The Board went on to hold that there is no provision for separate units in Chapter III B of the Act of 1955.
In the ultimate analysis the Member of the Board found that there was a gross and patent illegality in the order of the Sub Divisional Officer and consequently set aside the order of the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May 1976 as well as the order of the Appellate Authority dated 6th September 1976 and remanded the case to the Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh for fresh determination of the calling area for Raghubir Singh.
At the same time the power is there and it may be exercised sparingly in extraordinary case where interest of justice requires that the Board should exercise the power.
