Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated November 8 1957 of the Deputy Custodian General Evacuee Property Now Delhi Revision Petition No 17 R55 of 1955.
Achhru Ram and K L Mehta for the appellants.
The appellants who are admittedly displaced persons from West Pakistan were granted quasi permanent allotment of 24 standard acres and 15 34 units in the village of Raikot in Ludhiana District in 1949.
Their father Sardar Nand Singh who was 42 330 found entitled to quasi permanent allotment of 40 standard acres and 5 14 units of land was given quasipermanent allotment in another village named Humbran in the same district.
The two villages are however 25 miles or so distant from each other.
Nand Singh therefore made an application for consolidation of his lands with those of the appellants in the village Raikot.
During the pendency of this application he died and after his death the application was continued by the appellants.
This application was rejected by the Assistant Custodian on July 23 1951 on the ground that no land was available in the village Raikot.
A revision petition preferred by the appellants against the order of the Assistant Custodian was dismissed by the Additional Custodian on August 20 1952.
On October 7 1952 the appellants preferred a revision application before the Custodian General.
During the pendency of the revision application the Additional Custodian for the State of Punjab cancelled the allotment of fourteen quasi permanent allottees of the village Karodian in the same district on the ground that these persons were entitled to allotment of suburban land a had been wrongly fitted in the village Karodian.
Acting suo motu the Additional Custodian made an order on October 31 1952 cancelling the order of allotment of land in the village Raikot made in favour of the appellants in the year 1949 and instead allotted to them land in Karodian in substitution of the lands at Raikot and of the lands allotted to their father.
These fourteen allottees preferred an application for review of the order cancelling their allotment on the ground that this cancellation was a result of misapprehension of the actual facts and that they were not entitled to allotment of suburban lands at all.
The appellants also preferred an application for review of the order cancelling their quasi permanent allotment in the village Raikot.
The Additional Custodian however dismissed the application on the ground that r 146 of the Evacuee Property Rules which came into force on July 22 1952 stood in the way of cancellation of the allotment in favour of the appellant.
and allotment of which had been cancelled earlier.
As a result of this order the allotment of Karodian land made in favour of the appellants automatically stood cancelled.
On January 6 1955 the appellants moved the Deputy Custodian General for calling up their review application and for revising the order of October 31 1952 passed by the Additional Custodian cancelling the allotment of Raikot lands which had originally been made in their favour in the year 1949.
By the order dated November 8 1957 the Deputy Custodian General dismissed the appellants  application.
The ground on which the appellants  application was rejected by the Deputy Custodian General was that his jurisdiction to revise the order has been 332 taken away by virtue of the provisions of  44 of 1954 and the notification issued thereunder on March 24 1955.
Section 12 of the 1954 Act empowers the Central Government to acquire evacuee property for rehabilitation of displaced persons by publishing in the official gazette a notification to the effect that it has decided to acquire such evacuee property in pursuance of this provision.
It is common ground that by notification section R 0 697 dated March 24 1955 the Central Government decided to acquire all evacuee property allotted to displaced persons by the Custodian under the Conditions contained in the notification of the Government of Punjab in the Department of Rehabilitation No 4892 6 dated July 8 1949 except certain categories of property specified in the schedule.
333 provides that on the publication of the notification under sub section 1 the right title or interest of any evacuee in the property specified in the notification shall immediately stand extinguished and that property shall vest absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances.
Sub section.
Under section 161 of this Act the Central Government is empowered to take such measures as it considers necessary or expedient for the custody management and disposal of the compensation pool.
Sub section.
This provision thus confers the power to deal with evacuee property acquired under the Act only on a managing officer appointed or managing corporation constituted under the Act and makes no mention whatsoever of the Custodian appointed under the .
Mr Achhruram contended that r 74 of the Displaced Persons Compensation and Rehabilitation Rules 1955 stood in the way of the Custodian allotting the Raikot property to the respondents during the pendency of the proceedings before the Custodian General.
There is therefore no substance in this argument.
Sub section.
Sub section.
He cannot therefore be permitted to make out a new case at this stage of argument.
d of r 102 permits the managing officer or managing corporation to cancel allotment for any other sufficient reason to be recorded in writing.
