H N Sanyal Additional Solicitor General of India section N Andley and J B Dadachanji for the respondents in C A No 45 of 59 and Appellants In C A No 4659.
926 1960.
September 27.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
Daulatram Rameshwarlal a firm registered under the Indian Partnership Act referred to later in this judgment as sellers  are registered dealers under section 11 of the Bombay Sales Tax Act.
The Sales Tax Officer rejected this claim for exemption and assessed them to sales tax on a taxable turnover including these sales.
The notice of demand for the total sales tax and the purchase tax assessed was served on the sellers on September 30 1956.
The learned Judge who heard the petition rejected the sellers  contention that the goods remained their property till these crossed the customs frontier and therefore held that the sellers were not entitled to the benefit of article 2861b of the Constitution.
Against this decision the sellers appealed.
The 927 learned Judges who heard the appeal held disagreeing with the Trial Judge that the goods remained the sellers  property till the goods had been brought on board the ship and so the sales were exempted from tax under article 2861b of the Constitution.
Accordingly they directed the Sales Tax Officer not to enforce the demand for payment of sales tax with regard to the sales of cotton for Rs 68493 2 6 and sale of castor oil of the total value of Rs 647509 1 6.
Civil Appeal No 46 of 1959 has been preferred by the sellers against the appellate court s judgment in so far as it upheld the assessment of purchase tax under section 10b.
The only question for our decision in the appeal by the Sales Tax Officer is whether property in the goods passed on shipment or at some point of time before shipment.
The sellers  case is that these were sales on FOB contracts.
Though the learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Sales Tax Officer tried to convince us that these were not really FOB contract sales it appears that the averment in Paras.
11 and 13 of the writ petition that these sales were made on FOB basis were not denied in the counter affidavit sworn by the Sales Tax Officer.
Appeals dismissed.
