ION Criminal Appeal 89 of 1961.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated December 8 1960 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Appeal No 1782 of 60 and Referred No 125 of 1960 section K Kapur for the appellant G C Mathur and C P Lal for the respondent.
December 19.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RAGUHBAR DAYAL J.
Ram Singh appeals by special leave against the order of the Allahabad High Court dismissing his appeal and confirming 204 his conviction and sentence of death under section 302 IPC by the Session Judge Etawah.
The prosecution case in brief is that due to enmity the appellant caused injuries to Sheo Sahai who was sleeping in his cattle shed in village Bhadurpur Ghar with a sword at about mid night on the night between June 14 15 1960.
Sheo Sahai died of the injuries received.
The appellant thereafter proceeded to the Canal Distributory at some distance from the village and had a bath there.
He alleged that one Paley Singh informed him about the murder of Sheo Sahai and asked him to go to the Police Station Ekdil and to inform the Station Officer orally about the murder.
The Courts below rightly did not accept his version.
Both the Courts below rightly believed the evidence about the motive and purchase of the sword by the appellant.
205 The learned Sessions Judge believed Ujagar Singh and acted on the extra judicial confession made by the appellant to him.
The High Court however did not rely on this extra judicial confession.
On the other hand learned Counsel for the respondent urged that the High Court was wrong in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s extra judicial confession and that the extra judicial confession together with the circumstances relied on by the High Court fully make out the prosecution case against the appellant.
He also urges that such portions of the report which did not amount to a direct admission of the appellant s striking Sheo Sahai with a sword and thereby causing his death were admissible in evidence.
In fact none of the prosecution witnesses is alleged to bear enmity with the appellant.
A receipt about the sale was found on the person of the appellant when he was searched after his arrest.
The appellant s depositing the sword at the Police Station is deposed by Madho Ram PW 12 and by Sri Kishan Singh Station Officer Ekdil PW 16 in whose presence the appellant had dictated the report.
It is therefore not necessary to rely on the admissions of the appellant in the report with respect to these facts deposed to by the various witnesses whose testimony has been rightly accepted.
 With respect to the learned Judges these observations are not very consistent.
The learned Judges have not stated those considerations if any in addition to the improbability of Ujagar Singh s presence in his field on account of the crops being not very high which made them doubt the appellant s confessing to Ujagar Singh.
They damage the leaves of the plants and have no partiality for tall plants alone.
In fact the smaller the plants the easier it must be to graze.
The learned Sessions Judge has discussed the criticism urged before him against the acceptance of the statement of Ujagar Singh and considered 208 it for reasons given not to justify the rejection of Ujagar Singh s statement.
Both on account of the temperature and on account of the culprit s desire to wash of blood marks on his person the appellant s bathing in the Canal at that hour of the night cannot be said to be improbable.
It is not stated by sub Inspector Kishan Singh nor it is alleged that the appellant had on his person or on his clothes blood stains when he presented himself at the Police Station.
The fact that he had the sword which was stained with human blood leads to such a supposition even if the mere possession of a sword so stained be not sufficient to establish conclusively that the person who possessed it so shortly after the murder of a person with whom he had enmity had committed the murder.
Ujagar Singh was on the field for the purpose of watching it against the neel gais trespassing and grazing the crop.
led him to have a bath at that hour at night.
There is no reason to think that the appellant would not make such a statement when the appellant himself proceeds to the Police Station and hands over the blood stained sword.
We agree with the view of the learned Sessions Judge and do not consider Ujagar Singh s conduct of continuing to remain on his field during the night to be so improbable as to affect his veracity.
Ujagar Singh went to the village at about 5 am and them told the people of what he had been told by the appellant.
We are therefore of opinion that Ujagar Singh s statement about the appellant s confessing to him that he had murdered Sheo Sahai has been erroneously rejected by the High Court.
The extra judicial confession of the appellant to Ujagar Singh finds ample support from the facts that the appellant did purchase a sword a day before that very sword was found to be stained with human blood shortly after the murder and that sword was handed over by the appellant himself to the Police Officer at the Police Station.
Appeal dismissed.
