The present appeal has been brought to this Court by special leave and it arises from a suit filed by the appellants against four respondents.
The original grantdeeds are not available but at the time of the settlement of the Inams in the sixties of the last century Inam title deeds were issued in favour of the family of Pachai Kandai Udayavar.
The appellants in the present litigation claimed a declaration about their title to the properties in suit and a permanent injunction restraining respondents 1 to 3 who claimed to be the trustees of an alleged Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple at Eragudi from interfering with their possession of the same.
Notice of this application was served on the appellants and they pleaded their own title to the properties.
Before this order could be executed and possession delivered to respondents 1 to 3 the appellants instituted the present suit.
Respondents 1 to 3 resisted this suit and contended that the properties in suit had not been granted to the predecessor of Pachai Kandai Udayavar as alleged by the appellants.
Their case was that the said properties had been granted to the Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple and formed part of its properties.
As trustees appointed by respondent No 4 they claimed that they were entitled to the possession of the properties.
The learned trial Judge examined the whole evidence and came to the conclusion that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam and that it was not a grant in favour of the religious endowment within the meaning of the Act.
In consequence the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
The alternative plea made by the appellants that they had acquired title to the properties by prescription was also upheld by the trial Judge.
The lower appellate Court considered three main points they were  whether the grant was in favour of Ambalathadum Pachai Kandai Udayavar whether there is a temple and whether the plaintiffs had prescribed their title to the suit properties by adverse possession.
It held that the evidence adduced by the respondents did not prove the existence of any temple in favour of which the original grant had been alleged to have been made according to them.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants  claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession the lower appellate Court found that it was evident that from the very beginning Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
In consequence the appeal preferred by respondents 2  3 was partly allowed and the decree passed by the lower appellate court in regard to Exts.
125 Mr Tatachari also argues that in applying article 144 we must assume that the possession of the alienees was adverse to the temple from the respective dates of the alienations when they were put in possession of the properties covered by the transactions in question.
Where however the transfer is made by the manager not as manager but as an individual and he deals with the property not on the basis that it belongs to the religious endowment but on the basis that it belongs to himself considerations which would govern the application of limitation are substantially different and in such a case the transfer being void ab initio the possession of the transferee is adverse from the date of the transfer.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
Reverting then to the question as to whether a transfer effected by the manager of a temple in regard to properties belonging to the temple falls outside the purview of article 134 B if it is shown to have been made on the basis that the transferor treated the properties as his own it does appear that the two earlier Privy Council decisions in Gnanasambanda s2 and Damodar Das s3 cases lend some support to the contention.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
It may be permissible to state that this latter observation was made in 1899 long before the Privy Council enunciated the true legal position in regard to the status of the managers of Hindu religious endowments in Vidya Varuthi s case1.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
Mr Tatachari then contends that even on the application of article 134 B the decision of the High Court is erroneous because on the facts proved in this case the High Court should have drawn the legal inference that the transferor had been removed more than 12 years before the suit was filed.
This notice was served on witness Raju lyer and Amrithalinga lyer Chinnasamy Iyer and Rangaraja Reddiar who were performing the worship and acting as de facto managers of the temple.
In the circumstances of this case we direct that parties should bear their own costs.
