On June 4 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19 1965.
The writ petition is directed against 7 respondents the first of which is the 318 Company Law Board.
The second respondent is Mr T T Krishnamachari who was at that time Minister for Finance in the Government of India.
Apart from the relief of quashing the order of May 19 1965 the appellants sought the  issue of a writ restraining the Company Law Board and the Inspectors from giving effect to the order dated May 19 1965 and also sought some other incidental reliefs.
They disputed the validity of all the other grounds raised by the petitioners.
Our learned brother Shelat has dealt with this aspect of the matter fully in his judgment and as we agree with him it is not necessary to say much on the point.
Mr Setalvad said that as the appellants had made out a prima facie case of mala fides in their affidavits and as these allegations had been denied by the respondents the High Court was in error in refusing permission to the appellants to cross examine the persons who swore the affidavits on the side of the respondents.
b thereof confers a discretion upon the Board to appoint an Inspector to investigate the affairs of a company.
In paragraph 9 Mr Dutt has categorically stated that the order of May 19 1965 was passed after careful and independent examination of the material by the Chairman and that it was issued in proper exercise of the powers conferred upon it.
Turning to paragraph 16 of the affidavit we find that Mr Dutt has clearly reiterated that there was ample material before the Board on which it could and did form the opinion that there were circumstances suggesting that as stated in the order of May 19 1965 the business of the company was being conducted with intent to defraud creditors members and other persons and further that the persons concerned in the management of the affairs of the company had in connection therewith been guilty of fraud misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
Section 235 deals with Investigation of affairs of company on application by members or report by Registrar.
