Appeal No 787 of 1964.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
Sukumar Ghose for respondent No 1.
Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
The question before us is whether the respondent No 1 was entitled.
to the benefit of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended finally by an Act of 1953.
The facts necessary for the disposal.
of this appeal are as follows.
On the 18th June 1948 the plaintiff the appellant before us instituted Suit No 292 of 1948 for ejectment of three Persons namely Abdul Rahim Abdul Hamid and Abdul Gaffur from the property in suit a parcel of land about 1 cottah 8 chittaks being part of premises No 6  1 Shibtola Lane Entally Calcutta.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
In the plaint itself the first two defendants were described as thika tenants.
No claim was made for rents or taxes although it was alleged that the same were in arrears.
The suit was contested only by the third defendant who filed a written statement in September 1948 contending that the suit was bad for non joinder of parties.
The suit was decreed by a Munsif of Sealdah court 24 Parganas on March 18 1949 after the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act of 1949 had come into force on February 28 1949.
The appeal filed therefrom by the third defendant was dismissed by the Subordinate Judge.
Fifth Additional 172 Court Alipore on November 23 1949.
The decree holder put the decree in execution and recovered possession of the land on December 18 1949.
The Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 was passed on October 21 1952 introducing various changes in the Act and substituting a new definition of a thika tenant.
On March 14 1953 the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Act 1953 was passed amending the definition of thika tenant still further and introducing important changes in the Act of 1949.
The effect of these provisions will be considered later on.
Before the Subordinate Judge a point was taken that after the coming into force of the Act of 1949 the Rent Controller alone had jurisdiction in respect of ejectment suits as the defendant appellant was a thika tenant.
The Subordinate Judge dismissed the plea on the ground that the defendant appellant had not erected the structures on the land and was not a successor in interest of the tenant but only a transferee.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
The learned Judge held that at the time when the appeal of the defendant was disposed of by the Subordinate Judge the rights of the parties were governed by the Thika Tenancy Act of 1949 and the definition of a thika tenant in that Act was not such as to afford any protection to the appellant.
On remand the Subordinate Judge Seventh Court Alipore rejected the plea of the landlord that the appellant Gaffur could not be regarded as a thika tenant inter alia on the ground that he had sold his interest by a registered sale deed dated April 12 1949 to one Subasini.
Section 2 defined a thika tenant  as meaning any person who under the system commonly known as thika thika masik utbandi thika masik thika bastu or under and other like system held land under another person whether under a written lease or otherwise and was or but for a special contract would be liable to pay rent at a monthly or any other periodical rate for that land to such other person and had erected any structure on such land and was entitled to use it for residential purposes or for manufacturing or business purposes and included the suc cessors in interest of such person.
The definition of a thika tenant was modified slightly but the change affected thereby need not be taken account of because the respondent Gaffur s position was not improved thereby.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
The language of the section leaves no room for doubt as to this.
Section 28 was meant to give relief to a thika tenant in a case where a decree or order for recovery of possession of any holding from a thika tenant had been made before the date of commencement of the Act.
The language of section 5 being closely similar to that used in section 4 that section should also be held to be prospective only.
182 We cannot speculate as to why the legislature thought fit to omit sections 28 and 29 from the Act of 1949.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
Whereas before the enactment of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 it was not necessary for the landlord either to allege any of the grounds specified in section 3 or to prove the existence thereof at the hearing of the suit he had to establish the existence of such a ground when the suit was heard.
For reasons we cannot speculate upon the legislature limited the applicability of the Act only to suits and appeals pending on 21st October 1952 and not in February 1949 ie the date of the commencement of the Act of 1949.
