M C Chagla N D Karkhanis section P Chowdhury Bhuvanesh Kumari for the appellant.
The assessee is having construction contracts under the Railways as well as the Government.
It is a partnership firm.
For the assessment year 1960 61 relevant to the accounting year 1959 60 after the assessee submitted its income tax return it was asked by the Income tax Officer during the income tax assessment proceedings to produce before him its books of account and the other relevant papers.
The assessee also produced before him a statement showing various creditors from whom it had borrowed on Hundis during the accounting year in question.
In that statement it gave the lull names and address of the alleged creditors.
On June 3 1966 the 1st respondent Income tax Officer Ward A  Muzaffarpur issued to the assessee a notice under section 148 of the Indian Income tax Act 1961.
The material portion of that notice reads as follows Notice under section 148 of the Income tax Act 1961.
Income Tax Officer Muzaffarpur Dated the 3 6 1966.
The notice is being issued after obtaining the necessary satisfaction of the Commissioner of IncomeTax Bihar and Orissa Patna.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 1512 of the Act we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
In this case the notice was issued after four years but before eight years of the date of the original assessment.
At this stage we need not refer to that section  We shall refer to that provision at a later stage.
Name of District Ward of Circle A Ward Muzaffarpur G IR No 303 C 11.
Name and address of the assessee MS Chugamal Rajpal Muzaffarpur.
446 4.
13 5 66 Commissioner of Income tax Bihar and Orissa Patna 9.
Whether the Board is satisfied that it is aSecretary Board of Revenuefit case for the issue of notice under section 148.
No AP Misc5DI63 645623 dated 13 8 65 forwarded to this office under CIT Bihar and Orissa Patna s letter No Inv.
In other words he must have some prima facie grounds before him for taking action under section 148.
That is not the same thing as saying that there are reasons to issue notice under section 148.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee s omission to disclose fully and truly all material  facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
b of section 147.
Therefore he could not have issued a notice under section 148.
