B D Bal with A G Ratnaparkhi for the appellant.
The question that arises in this appeal by special leave is whether Shri Vithal Sukhamai Sansthan at Amalner East Khandesh was a private Devasthan or a public religious trust.
The deity of his worship was Shri Vithal Rukhamai.
He also acquired certain properties and the said temple with the properties constituted Shri Vithal Rukhamai Sansthan of Amalner.
The application was made on May 29 1952 to the Assistant Charity Commissioner Poona under protest and without prejudice 520 to the claim made therein that the Sansthan was not a public trust.
At the close of the enquiry the Assistant Charity Commissioner by his order of August 25 1956 held the Sansthan to be a public trust and ordered its registration as a public trust under the Act.
The applicants thereupon filed an appeal under section 70 of the Act before the Charity Commissioner Bombay who by his order of August 31 1957 affirmed the decision of the Assistant Charity Commissioner.
The learned District Judge reversed the decision of the Charity Commissioner by his order of October 16 1959 and declared the Sansthan to be a private property and not a public trust.
The High Court by its order of 1920th December 1962 set aside the order of the District Judge and held the Sansthan to be a public trust under the Act and restored the order of the Charity Commissioner.
The High Court particularly relied upon an admission of the appellant s witness Ramkrishna Deshpande when he stated that we cannot prevent people from going to the temple as the temple is meant for the Darshan by the public.
The Sanad being an ancient Royal grant is a very important piece of evidence to show that although Sakharam Maharaj the founder of the temple had already been succeeded by Guru Govindbuwa and the latter by Balkrishnabuwa the land had been held in the year 1860 61 in the name of the Devasthan.
In the absence of anything to the contrary of a convincing nature a grant by the Government in favour of the temple describing the property to be in charge of a manager leads to an unerring inference that the property is a public religious endowment.
This evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande stands corroborated by the Sanad which shows in the year 1860 61 the Manager of the Sansthan as Balkrishnabuwa Guru Govindbuwa.
Guru Govindbuwa was the second in the line of succession after Sakharam the founder and Balkrishnabuwa being the third in the line.
It is further pointed out that while nominating Prahlad as Adhikari Balkrishnabuwa stated in the said document as follows You are entitled to the ownership of all the incomes that will come before the Deity Shri Samarth and during the Swari procession as well as the income of Inam Najrana and the income of movable and immovable property.
We are unable to accept this submission as we find some other significant recitals in the documents itself warranting a contrary conclusion.
He stays there for about 4 months.
