ivil Appeal No 196 of 1 970.
ST Desai ATM Sampath Mukul Mudgal and Raju Ramachandran for the Appellants.
RK Garg Mrs Urmila Sirur and Shiv Pujan Singh for the Respondents.
b of clause I of Article 133 of the Constitution granted by the Allahabad High Court against its judgment and decree dated April 21 1969 disposing of appeals out of a suit for declaration and possession.
The plaintiffs filed a suit claiming that the property in dispute belonged to the Math Sauna or the deity Sri Thakur Gokarneshwar 661 Mahadeo Ji installed in the Math Sauna temple and that Mahant Sadashiva Yati was in possession as Mahant and Sarbarakar.
It was claimed that in the event of Mahant Sadashiva Yati being found out of possession a decree for possession should be made.
Sadashiva Yati pleaded that on the death of Mahant Shivshanker Yati he was elected Mahant of Math Sauna and was therefore entitled as Sarbarakar to all the properties recorded in the deity Mahadeo Ji or in the name of Mahant Shivshanker Yati.
These properties included properties in village Amauli.
He asserted that Shivshanker Yati possessed no personal property.
The suit was contested by the first defendant Kedar Nath Chaubey also referred to as Uma Shanker Yati.
He alleged that Mahant Shivshanker Yati owned personal properties which included the properties in village Amauli that he was the chela of Mahant Shivshanker Yati and the Amauli properties had passed to him under a will executed by the Mahant.
We are concerned in this appeal solely with the Amauli properties.
Math Sauna is an old Math situated in the village of that name in Tehsil Saidpur in the district of Ghazipur.
One of the earliest Mahants of the Math Mahant Gokaran Yati raised a temple in the premises of the Math and installed a deity acclaimed by the name of Gokarneshwar Mahadeo.
On his death he was succeeded by Mahant Shivbaran Yati who executed a waqf deed on November 12 1892 dedicating various properties to the deity with the intent that arrangements for bhog deepdan and other expenses be met from them.
The surplus the deed directed was to be employed for acquiring further property in the name of the deity and was not to be applied by the Sarbarakar to his personal use.
The learned Civil Judge decreed the suit but included a finding in his judgment that Sadashiv Yati was not a regularly constituted Mahant of Math Sauna and Sarbarakar of the deity.
Two appeals were filed in the High Court.
The High Court allowed both the appeals by its judgment and decree dated April 21 1969.
It held that the Amauli properties had been purchased by Shivshanker Yati in 1921 from 662 the personal and separate funds inherited by him from his predecessor Shivpher Yati and that the Amauli properties must therefore be regarded as his personal and separate properties and they did not belong to the Math or the deity.
The present appeal is directed against that part of the judgment and decree of the High Court.
The point for decision is whether the fund was the personal property of Mahant Shivpher Yati and if so whether it devolved on Mahant Shivshankar Yati.
The Mahants and members of Math Sauna belonged to the Dashnami Sanyasi sect.
The material on the record establishes that they could own and possess personal property.
They included sanyasis who had formerly been married men and householders men who had passed through the grihastha ashram.
Some of them continued to possess and even to acquire personal property after taking sanyas.
It was observed in Sushil Chandra Sen vs Gobind Chandra Dasl that Dashnami sanyasis mixed freely in the business world and carried on trade and often accumulated property.
This Court in Gurcharan Prasad vs Krishnanand 2 affirmed that Nihang Dashnami Sanyasis could pursue money lending business and could own property as absolute owners and enjoy them as their personal property.
That certain sects of sanyasis could acquire personal property was accepted by that eminent Judge Dr BK Mukherjee in his Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trustsa where he says A Mohunt and for the matter of that any other Sanyasi can acquire personal property of his own.
The Pronamis given to a Mohunt are generally his personal property.
He had also inherited the personal property of Mahant Shivbaran Yati who owned three private properties in village Shiv Dass in the district of Banaras.
On his death in 1917 all those properties and wealth devolved on Mahant Shivshankar Yati.
He was granted a succession certificate by the District Judge Ghazipur in respect of the two fixed deposits made by Mahant Shivpher Yati in the Bank of Bengal.
In respect of both properties the revenue records mentioned the name of Mahant Shivshankar Yati and not that of the Math or the deity.
It is urged for the appellants that where a nucleus of dedicated property exists the acquisition of additional property should be attributed to the application of the nucleus and must therefore be regarded as property belonging to the Math or the deity.
As has been observed there can be no presumption either way.
We are in agreement with the High Court that the fund from which the Amauli properties were acquired constituted the personal property of Mahant Shivpher Yati.
Mahant Shivshankar Yati executed a will in 1956 and it appears beyond dispute that by virtue of this will the Amauli properties devolved on Uma Shankar Yati.
The High Court has found that the claim was not accepted by the assessing authority and that the position in regard to those properties taken in the assessment proceedings was adopted by the Mahant only for the purpose of escaping personal liability to tax.
We concur with that finding.
In the result the appeal is dismissed with costs.
PBR Appeal dismissed.
