Civil Appeals Nos.
Ex parte for the Respondents.
In these 11 appeals only that part of the judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court is assailed by the Union of India where the challenge to the validity of section 28 of the Gold Control Act 1968 has succeeded.
The challenge to the other provisions of the Act at the instance of persons engaged in gold trade ie manufacturers shroffs and dealers in gold was rejected by the High Court.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus 28.
The High Court s reasoning in this behalf is to be found in its judgment at page 87 of the paper book and it runs thus The Administrator as is evident from this provision is given unlimited authority or power to refuse permission or to grant permission.
No rules have been framed prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the Administrator could refuse permission or grant permission.
A dealer is at the mercy of the Administrator and is help less against the arbitrary exercise of the power by the Administrator when he chooses to negative the request.
It is clear that Section 28 confers an arbitrary and uncanalised power without any criteria for guiding the discretion of the Administrator.
28 in the manner done and in our view the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court while dealing with unamended sec.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
It is true that no express rule prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the permission can be granted or refused 1 955 has been framed nor any particular guide line has been expressly indicated in sec.
28 by reference to which the power conferred upon him thereunder could be exercised by the Administrator but that is not decisive of the matter.
28 is part and parcel of the entire scheme of Gold Control as envisaged by the Act and the object of the enactment and the scheme affords sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising his discretion under that section.
28 are meant to prevent the circumvention of other provisions of the Act.
We approve the view taken in those cases As regards the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court in Harakchand Banthia s case supra while declaring unamended sec.
276 of the Act invalid we would like to point out that while conferring power on the Administrator in the matter of granting or renewing a license to a dealer the unamended sec.
e and public interest  in cl.
276 this Court struck down sec.
28 by reference to which the Administrator is required to exercise his power.
