minal Appeals Nos.
91 to 93 of 1954.
Appeals by Special Leave granted by Supreme Court on the 18th January 1954 from the Judgment and Order dated the 18th June 1953 of the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad in Confirmation Case No 3766 of 1952 53 and Criminal Appeals Nos3946 3956 and 3926 of 1952 53 arising out of the Judgment and Order dated the 2nd June 1952 of the Court of the Sessions Judge at Bidar in Sessions Case No 98 of 1951 52.
J B Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain for the appellant.
December 3.
Each was convicted and each was 1085 sentenced to death under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
They differed.
The former considered that the convictions should be maintained but was of opinion that the sentence in each case should be commuted to imprisonment for life.
The latter favoured an acquittal in all five cases.
On the question of sentence he considered that the death sentences on the three appellants Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia should be maintained and that those of the other two should be commuted to transportation for life.
It seems that the opinion of the third Judge was accepted as the decision of the Court and so the sentences suggested by him were maintained as well as the convictions.
All five convicts then applied to the High Court for leave to appeal.
The petition was heard by Ali Khan and Reddy JJ.
and they made the following order The circumstances of the crime in this case were such that a brutal murder had been committed and sentence of death was the only one legally possible for the Sessions Judge to have passed and it was confirmed by the High Court.
Leave to appeal was refused.
Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia who were sentenced to death applied here for special leave to appeal.
Their petition was granted.
The other two have not appealed.
Rasika Bai shouted out to the assailants not to beat Ramchander but they threatened her and then ran away.
Subhana does not say that the other two struck any particular blow.
We refer to the other eye witnesses here to show that there is no discrepancy on this point but we only rely on Rasikabai and Subhana for determining the fact Bhilia was directly charged with the murder and the injury on the throat is ascribed to him in the charge.
It requires a pre arranged plan because before a man can be vicariously convicted for the 1095 criminal act of another the act must have been done in furtherance of the common intention of them all Mahbub Shah vs King Emperor1.
