The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY J.
Special leave granted in all the cases.
These appeals raise common questions of law and may therefore be disposed of by a common judgment.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
By section 24 of Amending Act 47 of 1978 a proviso to section 637 was introduced.
By the time the proviso came into force 36 permits had been granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority and 14 remained to be granted.
By an order dated February 1 1984 the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
A number of appeals were preferred to the Karnataka State Transport Appellate Tribunal.
The Tribunal by its order dated February 28 1985 set aside the grant of the two permits in favour of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation set aside the grant of three out of eleven permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and instead granted three permits to private operators and increased the number of permits granted to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation from one to three.
It was on that ground that the grant of two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation was set aside though the Appellate Tribunal had no doubt regarding the resources and ability of that corporation to operate the tourist services.
It was on that ground again it was so stated by the Tribunal that some of the appellants 1012 before the Tribunal had to be denied the grant of permits though otherwise they would have been entitled to the grant of permits having regard to their expertise experience and resources.
A large number of applicants filed writ petitions in the High Court.
The writ petitions were rejected by the High Court on the ground that the preference contemplated by the proviso to section 637 contemplated exclusion of the non preferred  class if sufficient number of applicants from the preferred classes were available.
The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and some other private operators have filed these appeals by special leave of this Court under article 136 of the Constitution.
Shri Shanti Bhushan learned counsel for the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation Dr Chitley learned counsel for some of the private operators Shri Datar learned counsel for the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation Shri Sampat and Shri Javali learned counsel for other private operators submitted that the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court were wrong in distinguishing the decision of this court in Sher Singh s case and that the true position was that on a correct interpretation of the proviso to sec.
Section 471 C enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
In the second place we have no indication as to the manner in which the approval of the Central Government is to be sought and granted and the considerations which are expected to weigh with the Central Government.
