Both these challenge the order of detention dated 2nd January 1986 passed by the respondent no1.
The District Magistrate Dhanbad in respect of the petitioner under section 32 of the  hereinafter called the Act  on the ground that the petitioner s activities were prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.
On or about 2nd January 1985 the order of detention was passed on an incident relating to the exchange of fire between two rival groups.
The order states the grounds as follows 1.
Birendra Pratap Singh and his associates who were there also returned the firing in same manner.
As a result of this firing one innocent namely Brahamdeo Mishra was killed.
The exchange of indiscriminate firing in the main market area of Katras created great panic and alarm in the area.
The normal tempo of life was completely disturbed.
In this case subject and his associates opened fire on police party who went to apprehend Raghunath Singh absconder under NSA.
Sri Sisir Rajan Das however acceded to their request and started dancing.
The petitioner appellant thereafter filed a writ petition in the High Court of Patna which was dismissed without any speaking order.
When the order was passed the petitioner had not surrendered but when the order was served the petitioner had already surrendered in respect of the criminal charge against him.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate the detaining authority it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner s brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers customers and passers by of the area.
26986.
Judged on the basis of 911 the said principles there is no ground for interference with the order of detention as passed.
It may be mentioned that in the petition it is nowhere stated that the detenu has since been released or that the prospect of his imminent release was properly and with seriousness considered by the detaining authority.
The writ petition and the appeal are allowed to the extent indicated above.
