Civil Appeal No 3909 of 1986.
From the Judgment and order dated 2991986 of the Allahabad High Court in CR No 83 of 1986.
Shanker Ghosh and P K Jain for the Appellants.
YS Chitale.
Madan Lokur Prashant Bhushan Beni Parshad Rajinder Dhawan and Jitendra Sharma for the Respondents.
This appeal arises out of a judgment passed by the High Court of Allahabad in Civil Revision No 83 of 1986 wherein the learned Judge of the High Court allowed the revision petition set aside the judgment and decree of the Trial Judge and decreed the plaintiff suit for ejectment of the appellant.
The disputed property was let out on June 25 1976.
The accommodation was for the first time assessed for house tax by the Nagar Palika Ghaziabad with effect from October 1 1976.
The suit was filed for eviction after termination of tenancy before the trial court and objection was raised that as the shop and the basement were separately let out the tenancy could not be terminated by a single notice that would be invalid.
The trial court therefore dismissed the suit.
The High Court set aside this conclusion of the trial court.
High Court after discussing various decisions came to the conclusion that in view of the language of Section 2 sub clause 2 Explanation 1 it could not be doubted that period of 10 years will commence from 160 the date of assessment ie October 1 1976 that it is in that view of the matter that the learned Judge of the High Court decreed the suit and hence the present appeal.
If it could be passed on anyone of the grounds mentioned in Section 20 clause 2 of this Act in support of this contention the learned counsel placed reliance on decisions in Om Prakash Gupta etc.
vs Dig Vijendrapal Gupta etc.
It was also contended by learned counsel that as till the matter was pending in the High Court 10 years have not been completed and therefore the High Court passed the decree Now it could not be contended that as during the pendency of the proceedings in this Court 10 years have elapsed and therefore the appellant tenant will be entitled to protection of the provisions of Section 20 It was contended that it is well settled that if the right to file a suit accrues on the date of tiling of the suit then the rights will have to be determined on the basis of the law applicable on the date of the suit and not subsequently.
But apart from it the contention advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant was that because of the language of Section 39 and 40 even if the matter is pending in this Court and 10 years have elapsed appellant will be entitled to the benefit of the provisions of this Act because according to him the appeal will be a continuation of the suit and therefore the advantage will be available.
An attempt was made to contend that so far as the present property is concerned the Act will be deemed to have come into force on the expiry of 10 years ie 11086 but this contention could not be accepted as it is very clear from the language of this Act that it applied I only to a suit pending on the date of the commencement of this Act and this is the view taken in the Om Prakash Gupta s case wherein it was observed Further in order to attract section 39 the suit must be pending on the date of commencement of the Act which is 15th of July 1972 but the suit giving rise to the present appeal was filed on 23rd of March 1974 long after the commencement of the Act.
It is clear that provisions of Section 40 will come to the rescue of the appellant tenant only if the suit from which revision or appeal arose was pending on the date of commencement of this Act ie 1571972 and therefore it could not be contended that the present revision petition or the appeal either to the High Court or the appellate authority arose out of suit which was pending on the date on which this Act came into force.
It is well settled that the rights of the parties will be determined on the basis of the rights available to them on the date of the suit but in Vineet Kumar s case supra this Court took the view that if during the pendency of the proceedings 10 years have elapsed the tenant is entitled to the protection under the Act and in coming to this conclusion the Court also considered the language of Section 39 of the Act and it observed The appellant in the present case only seeks the protection of the new Rent Act which became applicable to the premises in question during the pendency cf the litigation.
Subsection 4 of section 20 stipulated that in any suit for eviction on the grounds mentioned in Cl.
In this view of the matter therefore the appeal is without any substance and is dismissed.
It is true that we maintained the decree for eviction passed by the High Court but in view of the fact that as the appellant has been carrying out the business in the premises for a long time for it would be proper to permit the appellant time to make their arrangements for shifting.
We therefore direct that the decree for eviction shall not be executed upto 3 1st March 1988 on the appellant filing a usual undertaking within four weeks.
In default the respondent shall be entitled to execute the decree forthwith.
In the circumstances of the case parties are directed to bear their own costs.
SL Appeal dismissed.
