These appeals under Section 35Lb of the Central Excises  Salt Act 1944 hereinafter called the 979 Act  are against the order Nos.
The case of the appellant is that the said fusel oil is a com pletely manufactured article and after completion of its manufacture it is stored in storage tanks duly approved for this purpose.
It is also the case of the appellant that the said fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufac tured by it is sold in bulk and delivered to the customers at the appellant s factory.
In the said price lists which were duly approved by the Asstt.
On 2nd July 1983 a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
Replies were duly filed to the said show cause notices by the appellant contending inter alia that as the drums were supplied by the buyer value thereof could not be included in the assessable value.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer there fore the value had to be included in the assessable value.
It was contended that in any event under the Act and the Rules the duty of excise is payable by the manufacturer on the manufactured goods.
It was contended by Shri Salve appearing on behalf of the appellant that on a correct analysis of section 44d the duty being on the activity of manufacture whatever is necessary to bring the goods into existence alone can be taken into account for duty purposes.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
There is no presump tion as to tax.
The Asstt.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
According to the learned Attorney General the fact that 90 of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10 represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
The relevant provi sion of section 4 of the Act deals with the manner as to how the value is to be computed and section 44d stipulates as follows value in relation to any excisable goods i where the goods are delivered at the time of removal in a packed condition includes the cost of such packing except the cost of the packing which is of a durable nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
