ivil Appeal No 4649 of 1989.
From the Judgment and Order dated 2671988 of the Allahabad High Court in Review Application No 27W of 1988.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH CJ.
The Respondent Arun Govil had been granted a permanent commission in the Indian Air Force and was working as a Pilot Officer.
The State of Uttar Pradesh also adopted the same scheme.
Under that scheme the ex military officials were appointed on Contract basis for a fixed term which could be extended from time to time subject to the suitability of the official concerned but not beyond 58 years of age.
Pursuant to the said scheme the State of Uttar Pradesh appointed the respondent as the Secretary Zila Sainik Board Unnao on 20th of August 1979.
Paragraph 2 of the said order of appointment issued on 20th August 1979 reads thus The appointment shah be on contract for a period of one 241 year wef.
the date of assumption if it is not terminated earlier by giving a one month s notice by the Hon ble Gover nor or on paying one month s salary in lieu thereof or by giving one month s notice by the Officer.
 The respondent was required to furnish his acceptance of the terms and conditions contained in the said order includ ing the above term relating to the period of appointment and on his accepting the terms and conditions he was appointed as the Secretary in the District Soldiers Board in the district of Unnao in the State of Uttar Pradesh .
The said term was extended retrospectively first upto 20th August 1982 by an order passed in September 1981 and it was again extended upto 31st March 1983 by an order made in February 1983.
Again the term was extended upto 30th of August 1985 by an order dated 1st June 1983.
All these orders of exten sion were couched almost in the same language.
The relevant part of the last of such orders namely the order dated 1st June 1983 reads as follows Sir With reference to your letter No 1020Sa.
ADM141 Dated 3131982 on the above subject I am directed to say that the terms of the officers mentioned under para 2 who were appointed wef.
The Governor is therefore pleased to accord his sanction to extend the period of the contract upto the period mentioned under para 5 subject to the condi tion that their service tenure shall expire on completion of 58 years of age in case the same is completing earlier during the extended period.
During the extended period of the contract conditions of service of officers shall remain same as are mentioned under their Appointment Order.
But on 2931985 the service of the 1st Respondent was terminated by the issue of a notice and payment of one month s salary.
The High Court further issued a direction to the effect that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service.
In the Penultimate paragraph of the judgment the High Court further stated It is open for the opposite parties to con sider the claim of the petitioner for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court.
243 The respondent who was not satisfied by the order allow ing the Writ Petition as stated above preferred a Review Petition before the High Court contending that he was enti tled to be reinstated in service on the pronouncement of the Judgment on 243.
 The contention of the respondent was that the said interim order entitled him to be reinstated in service irrespective of the fact whether the Governor had extended the period of his appointment beyond 30th of August 1985.
The High Court allowed the Review PetitiOn on 2671988 and made an order reinstating the Respondent in service which reads as follows This is an application for review of our Judgment dated 2431988 by which we allowed the Writ Petition filed by the Petitioner with certain directions.
It seems that when the writ petition was decided our attention was not drawn towards the interim order dated 1071986 passed by learned single Judge in which it was provided that one post will be kept vacant and in case the petitioner suc ceeds in his petition it would be made avail able forthwith to the petitioner by way of his appointment.
Even the order passed on Review on 2671988 does not make out that the respondent had put forward at that stage such a case.
His only case was that the interim order that had been passed on 10786 entitled him to be reinstated in service even though there was no order of extension of service.
The order passed on review is wholly unsustainable.
We however make it clear that what we have stated above does not affect in any way what the High Court has stated in the penultimate paragraph of the Judgment dated 2431988 which reads thus It is open for the opposite parties to con sider the claim of the petitioner for continu ation in service or the fresh appointment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court.
TNA Appeal allowed.
