The petitioners in these petitions have questioned the validity of a notification issued by the Government of Gujarat on June 26 1985 in exercise of its powers conferred by Section 15 of the 67 of 1957 herein after referred to as the Act amending the Gujarat Minor Mineral Rules 1966 hereinafter referred to as the Rules with effect from 1 7 1985 substituting the original rule 21 of the Rules by a new rule which reads as follows 21.
Rate of Royality The holder of a quarry lease or any other mineral concession granted under these rules shall pay royalty in respect of minor minerals specified in column 2 of the schedule removed or consumed by him or by his agent manager employee contractor or sub lessee from the leased area at the rates respectively specified against them in column 3 of the said schedule.
Provided that i the holder of a Parwana granted under these rules shall pay royalty at the rate of fifty percent of the rate of royalty specified in the said schedule.
ii no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year.
iii no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters if their annual produc tion is not exceeding two lakhs bricks and they supply at least one lakh bricks to the Rural Housing Board or Panchayats.
409 In order to understand the case of the petitioners it is necessary to set out some other provisions of law governing the case.
Clause e of the said section defines minor minerals  as building stones gravel ordinary clay ordinary sand other than sand used for prescribed purposes and any other mineral which the Central Government may.
The Act has made provision with regard to the issue of prospecting licences and mining leases in respect of various kinds of minerals other than minor minerals and the procedure to be followed in that connection in the matter of issue of prospecting licences and mining leases.
Section 9 of the act empowers the Central Government to levy royalty in respect of the minerals which are won by the mining lease holders under the Act at the rates prescribed in the Second Schedule to the Act.
It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
2 Until rules are made under sub section 1 my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
We have taken this view after going through the observations made by this Court in Trivedi s case supra at page 544 where this Court has observed that where a statute confers discretion ary powers upon the executive or an administrative authori ty the validity or constitutionality of such power cannot be judged on the assumption that the executive or such authority will act in an arbitrary manner in the exercise of the discretion conferred upon it.
Whoever is given an exclusive right to exploit a mine will have to pay some amount by way of return to the Govern ment of India as authorised by entry 50 of List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution.
The compe tent officer may grant such Parwana in the following priorities a Individual families to Khanias belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes who do physical work I of excavating minor mineral in the area applied for 415 b Individual families of Khanias  who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in the area applied for.
Under rule 18 of the Rules the period of lease in the case of the minor minerals can be for a much longer period it can be upto 10 years in respect of minor minerals except in the case of ordinary sand Kankar Mur ram Gravel and in the case of Kankar Murram and gravel a lease can be granted upto three years and the area or land covered by a mining lease is governed by rule 15 which says that no quarry lease shall be granted for an area exceeding 10 hectares in case of specified minor mineral and 20 hec tares in the case of other minerals.
