PW 3 the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1 Venkataswamy the canteen contractor as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
This was on the basis of a complaint made by the appellant that the food served in the canteen was substand ard.
The appellant had taken food in the canteen for two days and being dissatisfied discontinued the practice before the notice was issued.
As instructed PW 1 was ready with ten rupees currency notes.
PW 1 handed over the money to the appellant who received the same.
When PW 1 emerged PW 6 along with PW 2 confronted the appellant.
The appellant produced the currency notes.
PW 6 conducted the phenolphthalein test with reference to the fingers of the appellant.
The test was positive the currency notes were seized and the appellant arrested.
PW 3 the Principal produced the concerned file relating to show cause notice from the house of the appellant on the same day.
Finally the appellant was chargesheeted.
At the trial the prosecution witnesses supported the case.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 2210.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant was not challenged.
The plea of the appellant was that PW 1 had returned the amount due to him and there had been no demand for a bribe as there had been no occasion for doing so.
The Trial Court accepted the prosecution evidence rejected the plea of the appellant and recorded the conviction.
It was also urged that the appellant being new in the office could exert little influence on the Principal and the whole story is therefore improbable.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 41 of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
The learned counsel appearing for the appellant however maintained that the appellant had a consistent case even from the earliest opportunity that the currency notes found in his possession was the money returned by PW 1 the cir cumstances of the case would probabalise this case of the appellant and the presumption if any arising under section 4 is rebutted and the conviction cannot therefore be sus tained.
