N Criminal Appeal No 8 of 1951.
Appeal from an Order of the High Court of Bombay Bavdekar and Chainani JJ dated 20th February 1950 in Criminal Appeal No 106 of 1950 arising out of an order dated 9th January 1950 of the Presidency Magistrate 19th Court Esplanade Bombay in Case No 10879P of 1949.
The facts are stated in the judgment.
Iswarlal C Dalai and RB Dalai for the appellant.
February 1.
The Judgment of the Court was deliv ered by CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
The facts out of which this Crimi nal Appeal has arisen are not long.
The appellant WH King who is carrying on a business in Bombay under the name and style of Associated Commercial Enterprises was the tenant of a flat on the second floor of a building called Ganga Vihar Marine Drive Bombay which belongs to a lady named Durgeshwari Devi.
It is said that the appellant wanted to go to the United Kingdom for treatment of his failing eye sight and he got into touch with the complainant Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia who is the second respondent in this appeal through one Sayed for the purpose of making necessary ar rangements about the flat occupied by him in view of his intended departure.
The complainant actually paid the accused two sums of 420 Rs 500 each on 7th November 1948 and 17th November 1948.
He however got into touch with the police on 1 12 1948 and in conjunction with the latter a trap was laid for the appellant.
The complainant and a Sub Inspec tor posing as the complainant s brother went to the appel lant on 4 12 1948 and paid him the two sums of money and the keys of the flat and the motor garage were handed over to the complainant.
As the appellant and his wife were leaving the flat the man who masqueraded as the complain ant s brother threw off his disguise and disclosed his identity.
From the complainant were recovered the bunch of keys and the documents that were handed over to him by the appellant namely the letter handing vacant possession Exhibit D.
His wife who was the second accused in the case was charged with aiding and abetting her husband in the commission of the two offences.
The wife of the appellant denied any aiding and abetting.
As section 18 1 of the Act was not applicable he convicted him under section 192 of the Act and sentenced him in view of his old age and blindness to one day s simple imprisonment and a fine of Rs 30000.
The section which consists of two parts is in these terms 1 It shall not be lawful for the tenant or any person acting or purporting to act on behalf of the tenant to claim or receive any sum or any consideration as a condi tion for the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises 422 2 Any tenant or person who in contravention of the provisions of sub section 1 receives any sum or considera tion shall on conviction be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 6 months and shall also be pun ished with fine which shall not be less than the sum or the value of the consideration received by him.
 It was urged that the offence arises only on receipt of any sum or any consideration as a condition of the relin quishment by a tenant of his tenancy and that in the present case there was no such relinquishment.
Exhibit D which is the most material document under which the appellant handed over vacant possession of the flat to the complainant constitutes or evidences an assignment of the tenancy and not a relinquishment.
It says  I WH King hereby hand over vacant possession of my flat No 3 situated on 2nd floor and garage No 4 on the ground floor of Ganga Vihar Building on Plot No 55 situated on Marine Drive Road to Mr Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia from this day onward and that I have no claim whatsoever over this flat and Mr Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia will pay the rent directly to the landlord.
The learned Solic itor General urged that the word relinquishment was not a term of art and was used in the section not in any strict technical sense but in its comprehensive meaning as giving up of possession of the premises and he pointed out that if it was intended by the legislature that relinquish ment should have the limited meaning sought to be placed upon it on behalf of the appellant the word surrender used in the Transfer of Property Act would have been more appropriate.
Section 18 deals with the grant renewal or continuance of a lease of any premises or the giving of his consent by the landlord to the transfer of a lease by sub lease or otherwise and it provides that the landlord who receives any fine premium or other like sum or deposit or any consideration for the grant renewal or continuance or the accord of consent oh would be guilty of an offence and liable to the punishment therein specified.
It is the landlord s consent to the transfer of a lease by sub lease or otherwise on receipt of consideration that has been made an offence.
Then follows section 19 which speaks of the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises by a tenant.
If by the expression an assignment such as we have in the present case was meant appropriate words could have been used such as the transfer by a tenant of his interest which we find in section 108 sub clause i of the Trans fer of Property Act.
The consent of the landlord to an assignment is not necessary in the absence of a contract or local usage to the contrary.
But in the case of relinquishment it cannot be a unilateral transaction it can only be in favour of the lessor by mutual agreement between them.
In fact a surrender or relinquishment terminates the lessee s rights and lets in the lessor.
It is no doubt true that the word relinquishment does not occur in the Transfer of Property Act but it is found in many of the Tenancy Acts in various provinces where there are Sec tions which deal with the 55 424 relinquishment of their holdings by tenants in favour of the landlord by notice given to him in writing.
The section in question it should be further noted does not speak of relinquishment or giving up of possessionin general terms.
The words are the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises.
The relinquishment of a tenancy is equivalent to surrender by the lessee or tenant of his rights as such.
Whether abandonment of a tenancy would come within the meaning of relinquishment is a question that does not arise in this appeal because in the face of Exhibit D there is no abandonment in the sense that the tenant disappeared from the scene altogether saying nothing and making no arrange ments about his interest and possession under the lease.
Agent for respondent No 1 PA Mehta.
Agent for respondent No 2 Ganpat Rai.
