A V Viswanatha Sastri V Vedantachari and K Sundararajan for the appellant.
August 14.
The circumstances under which the three writ petitions came to be filed by the appellant may now be narrated.
It is alleged that on January 10 1942 an agreement was entered into between the Rajah of Venkatagiri and one Sri Balumuri Nageswara Rao whereby the Rajah agreed to give annual leases in respect of certain slate quarries within his estate for five years in succession commencing from February 1942 if the Rajah was satisfied with the work carried on by the lessee during the preceding year.
It was 551 further stipulated that if the leases were given continuously for five years then the lessee would be entitled at the end of the fifth year to obtain a lease from the Rajah for a period of 20 years commencing from the termination of the fifth year.
On the expiry of the fifth year however the Rajah granted another lease to the said Balumuri Nageswara Rao for a short period commencing from February 1 1947 and ending on November 30 1947.
The Rajah on the same day granted a lease for twenty years to the appellant.
On September 7 1949 the Venkatagiri estate was notified under section 3 of the Madras Estate Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari Act 1948 Madras Act XXVI of 1948 hereinafter referred to as the abolition Act.
On the same date the appellant applied to the Collector for confirmation of the lease granted by the Rajah to him.
Nothing appears to have happened until February 12 1952 when a notice was issued from the office of the Board of Revenue Andhra calling upon the appellant to show cause within two months from the date of receipt of.
Thereupon the Board of Revenue passed an order on December 27 1955 declaring that the lease to the appellant had been granted subsequent to July 1 1945 and that as the lease was for a period exceeding one year it was not enforceable against the Government according to the second proviso to section 20 1 of the Abolition Act.
The appellant promptly filed writ petition No 1 of 1956 praying for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the State of Andhra Pradesh to forbear from terminating his leasehold right in the slate quarries.
Those provisions proceed on the assumption that certain laws passed under the Government of India Act 1935 did offend section 299 of that Act and expressly save those Acts.
2 of section 20 of the Abolition Act.
There is no warrant for saying that the avoidance must be under the terms of the third proviso.
