the respondent No. i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
the respondents preferred appeals before the high court challenging their convictions and sentences.
the high court allowed the two appeals acquitted the respondents and dismissed the application for revision preferred by the state.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
the original managing agency agreement in favour of aeco with respect to vesco was for a period of 15 years i e from 1933 to 1948 and was later renewed for the remaining term of the currency of the licence granted by the government under the electricity act.
he pressed his claim for appointment as secretary of vesco and representative of the managing agents at visakhapatnam and r h g raju appointed him to that post.
the respondent No 1 even after his appointment on two posts connected with vesco continued to work with the aeco also whose business had by then been confined only to that of managing agents of the four companies floated by d l n raju.
it is the prosecution case that as secretary of vesco and the resident representative of the managing agents the respondent No i was attending to the day to day affairs of vesco which included the receiving of all sums of money due to vesco spending money for the purpose of vesco attending to the appointment supervision and control of the staff of vesco purchasing materials required for the purpose of vesco and supervising over the accounts of vesco.
as secretary of vesco it was his duty to convene the meetings of the board of directors to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of vesco to convene meetings of the general body to prepare the managing agents report and the director 's report as also to see to the presentation of auditors report and the statement of accounts.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
it was also his duty to have the accounts of vesco audited by the auditors elected by the general body and to produce before the auditors the relevant accounts vouchers bank statements and so on.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i wanted to take advantage of this fact and conceived of a scheme for misappropriating as much money belonging to vesco as possible before the managing agency agreement of aeco came to an end in october 1948.
i secured the promotion of the approver k v ramana who was originally accounts clerk to the post of senior accountant.
similarly k v gopala raju was transferred from the post of stores clerk to the general department and k s n murty the discharged accused was appointed stores clerk in his place.
the conspiracy is said to have been hatched in the year 1947 and falsification of accounts and misappropriation of funds of vesco went on till the end of the accounting year.
the vesco used to receive large amounts of money from high tension power consumers such as the railways k g hospital the port administration the andhra university etc.
this amount was posted in vesco 's cash handover book as by safe indicating that this amount was kept in the safe though in fact it was not.
apparently subba raju was fully satisfied with this and other explanations and therefore he appointed one c section raju who was the manager of andhra cements to supervise over the affairs of vesco apparently because of this a new method of misappropriation was adopted by the respondents by starting in the vesco account books an account called suspense account.
subba raju was not satisfied with the nature of supervision exercised by c section raju over the affairs of vesco because he used to look only at the cash book entries of the days on which he paid visits to vesco 's office to which he used to go with previous intimation.
besides that c section raju 's management of andhra cements had landed it into a loss of rs 30 000.
because of all these things he had c section raju replaced towards the end of the year 1951 by one subbaramayya a retired finance officer from the madras electricity board both as a director of andhra cements and as a supervisor over the accounts of vesco.
in january 1952 he therefore brought one section g krishna aiyar who had vast experience in the maintenance of accounts of electrical undertaking 's having been chief accountant of the south madras electric supply corporation to undertake an investigation and then to act as financial adviser.
on that date the respondent No 1 produced the auditor 's report.
section g krishna aiyar after his appointment in january 1952 made close enquiry and submitted an interim report.
that report showed that during the period 1948 49 rs 33 271 10 0 shown as paid to the andhra power system were in fact not paid.
on february 12 1952 the respondent No i wrote to the managing director admitting his responsibility and agreed to make good the amounts found short or such other amounts as would be found short up to the end of march 1952.
further scrutiny of the accounts was being carried out by krishna aiyar and in his subsequent report he pointed out that rs 2 38 000 which were shown as having been paid to the andhra power system had actually not been paid.
in fact in april 1952 the collector attached vesco properties for realising this amount.
on april 30 1952 the respondent No 1 by selling some of his property himself paid rs 50 000 to the andhra power system towards the sum due to it from vesco and had promised to pay the balance shortly thereafter.
the directors of vesco thereafter authorised k section dutt one of the directors to lodge a complaint with the police which he accordingly lodged on may 19 1952.
od september 13 1954 ramana offered to make a full confession to the additional district magistrate independent who was empowered to grant pardon under section 337 of i he code of criminal procedure.
the latter accordingly made a confession on november 15 1954 and on november 17 1954 the additional district magistrate independent granted him pardon and that is how he came to be examined as a witness in this case.
as already stated the additional sessions judge convicted both the respondents the respondent No i in respect of each head of the offences with which he was charged and the respondent No 2 in respect only of the offences of conspiracy and misappropriation.
in the first place according to the high court joint trial of two or more persons in respect of different offences cornmitted by each of them is illegal and that here as they were charged with having committed offences under section 120 b section 409 section 477 a and section 476467 i p c they could not be tried jointly.
next according to the high court even if section 239 is applicable its provisions are subject to those of section 234 and as such the trial being for more than three offences was impermissible.
further according to the high court where a conspiracy has yielded its fruits the conspirators can be charged with the actual offences committed and not with conspiracy to commit those offences.
charge of conspiracy according to the high court can be validly made only when the prosecution establishes that every conspirator expected to receive a personal benefit from it and that the prosecution has not been able to establish that the respondent No 2 or the approver evidently had any such expectations since they did not in fact receive any corresponding benefit.
the approver 's evidence was held by the high court to be inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal.
the high court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the evidence act.
the high court has further stated that inadmissible evidence was taken on record by the additional sessions judge namely account books of billimoria brothers maintained in gujrati and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing the prosecution to use those account books for establishing absence of entries with regard to certain payments alleged in the vesco books to have been made to them.
finally the high court held that the examination of the respondent under section 342 of the code was unfair for a number of reasons and that the additional sessions judge had failed to perform an important duty in that he did not call the attention of the respondents to the provisions of section 342 which enable an accused person to give evidence in his own behalf.
3 irrelevant evidence was introduced and some evidence was introduced in a manner not authorised by the evidence act.
the second charge is for an offence of criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 and the accusation therein is that the two respondents along with ramana misappropriated 69 items aggregating to a little over rs 3 20 000.
it is clear from the charge that some of the amounts were misappropriated between april 1947 and march 1950 some between april 1947 and march 1949 some between april 1947 and march 1951 and quite a large number between september 1947 and march 1950 and a still large number between april 1951 and march 1952.
ramana made false entries on seven different dates in the account books between september 19 1947 and march 18 1952 and thus committed an offence under section 477 a i p c the fourth charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
ramana forged six documents on different dates between march 28 1949 and november 12 1951 and thus committed an offence under section 471 read with section 467 i p c as we have pointed out earlier the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge in respect of the third and fourth charges.
the main reasons upon which the conclusion of the high court is based are firstly that there could be no clubbing together of the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 and secondly that the respondents were charged with more than three offences of the same kind and that this was in contravention of section 239 c. in coming to the conclusion that the provisions of various clauses of section 239 can not be applied cumulatively the high court has relied upon the decision in re vankavalapati gopala rao 1956 airandhra 21.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
section 224 deals with the interpretation of the language of the charge and section 225 with the effect of errors in the charge.
226 to 231 deal with the power of the court with regard to framing and altering charges and the procedure to be adopted at the trial where a charge is found to be defective or there is no charge or where a new charge is to be framed.
section 232 deals with the power of the appellate court or the high court when it discovers that there is material error in the charge.
1 deals with the trial of a person for offences of the same kind not exceeding three committed within the space of 12 months from the first to the last of such offences and section 231 2 what is meant by the expression offences of the same kind.
thus under this provision if the connection between the various offences is established the limitations placed by section 2341 both as regards the number and the period during which the offences are alleged to have been committed will not apply.
sub s 2 of section 235 deals with a case where an offence falls within two definitions and sub s 3 deals with a case in which a number of acts are alleged against an accused person different com binations of which may constitute different offences.
thus this is a special provision available in case of doubt and is neither subject to the limitations prescribed by section 233 nor those of the other preceding provisions.
now if the respondent No 1 were alone tried upon the second third and the fourth charges the provisions of section 2351 could have been pressed in aid if the allegations were that the offences were so connected together as to form one and the same transaction and the validity of the trial would not have been open to any attack.
of course a court has the power to depart from the grammatical construction if it finds that strict adherence to the grammatical construction will defeat the object the legislature had in view.
the concluding portion of section 239 shows that the provisions contained in the former part of chapter xix shall as far as may be apply to the charges framed with the aid of section 239.
does this mean that the provisions of section 233 234 235 and 236 must also be complied with.
again as already stated section 2341 does not override the provisions of section 2351 which permits trial of a person for more offences than one committed during any period provided they are so connected together as to form one transaction.
now since section 2341 can not be properly read a overriding section 2351 there is no valid reason for construing it as overriding the provisions of section 239 either.
the provisions of sub s 2 and 3 of section 235 are enabling provisions and quite plainly can have no overriding effect.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
it was contended by mr chari that the expression former part would apply to the first sub division of chapter xix which deals with the form and content of the charges and the powers of the court with regard to the absence of charge and alteration of charge.
thus while it is clear that the sections preceding section 239 have no overriding effect on that section the courts are not to ignore them but apply such of them as can be applied without detracting from the provisions of s 239.
on a plain construction of the provisions of section 239 therefore it is open to the court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law the provisions of sections 233 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
the decision of the allahabad high court in t r mukherji 's case il is directly in point and is clearly to the effect that the different clauses of section 239 are mutually exclusive in the sense that it is not possible to combine the provisions of two or more clauses in any one case and to try jointly several persons partly by applying the provisions of one clause and partly by applying those of another or other clauses.
no doubt as has been rightly pointed out in this case separate trial is the normal rule and joint trial is an exception.
this would lead to unnecessary multiplicity of trials involving avoidable inconvenience to the witnesses and avoidable expenditure of public time and money.
but here again if those offences are alleged not to be wholly unconnected but as forming part of the same transaction the only consideration that will justify separate trials would be the embarrassment or difficulty caused to the accused persons in defending themselves.
but we find it difficult to appreciate what seems to be the view of the high court that because each clause of section 239 enunciates a separate principle those principles are so to speak mutually exclusive and can not be cumulatively resorted to for trying several persons jointly in respect of several offences even though they form part of the same transaction.
b says that persons accused of an offence and persons accused of abetment or of an attempt to commit such offence may also be charged and tried together.
during the course of the attack one person from the second group was killed as a rest of blows with an axe inflicted by the aggressors a b and c two persons of the second group sustained grievous hurt as a result of lathi blows and one person sustained simple hurt.
let us say that the grievous hurt was caused as a result of lathi blows given by x and y simple hurt was caused by lathi blows given by z here the offences committed were those under sections 147 302 325 and 323 i p c the offences being different and the persons commiting the offences being different they could not be tried jointly only with the help of cl.
similarly z can be charged with offence 's under sections 147 323 and offences under section 302.
what was held there was that sections 235 1 and section 236 are mutually exclusive and if a case is covered by one of them it can not be covered by the other.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
there nine persons were jointly tried for an offence under section 5 1 c and d of the prevention of corruption act 1947 and section 109 i p c read with s 420 section 466 and section 467 i p c and all except one for offences under sections 420 467471 i p c some of them were also charged with separate offences under some of these provisions.
two of the accused persons preferred a revision application before the high court of andhra pradesh in which they challenged the charges framed against them.
but on appeal by the state of andhra pradesh to this court this court held that there was no misjoinder of charges that the introduction of a large number of charges spread over a long period was a question of propriety and that it should be left to the judge or the magistrate trying the case to adopt the course which he thought to be appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case.
it is true that the question of reading the various clauses cumulatively did not specifically arise for decision in that case but the high court had held that the first charge was an omnibus charge containing as many as 203 offences and that it was in direct violation of sections 234 235 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure.
therefore where the alleged offences have been committed in the course of the same transaction the limitation placed by section 234 1 can not operate.
this section provides that the following persons may be charged and tried together namely 1 persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction 2 persons accused of abetment or an attempt to commit such an offence 3 persons accused of different offences committed in the course of the same transaction.
in such circumstances what the court has to consider is whether prejudice has in fact been caused to the accused by reason of the multiplicity of charges or misjoinder if any of the charges.
the whole question has again been examined by this court recently in birichh bhuian v the state of bihar subba rao j who delivered the judgment of the court has stated the position thus even if we were to assume that there has been a misjoinder of charges in violation of the provisions of sections 233 to 239 of the code the high court was incompetent to set aside the conviction of the respondents without coming to the definite conclusion that misjoinder had occasioned failure of justice.
this decision completely meets the argument based upon dawson 's case.
merely because the accused persons are charged with a large number of offences and convicted at the trial the conviction can not be set aside by the appellate court unless it in fact came to the conclusion that the accused persons were embarrassed in their defence with the result that there was a failure of injustice.
for all these reasons we can not accept the argument of learned counsel on the ground of misjoinder of charges and multiplicity of charges.
bhimasankaram supporting the view taken by the high court then contends that it is not permissible to frame a charge of conspiracy when the matter has proceeded beyond the stage of conspiracy and that in pursuance of it offences have actually been committed.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
in swamirathnam 's case 1 which is a decision of this court certain persons were tried for the offence of the conspiracy to cheat the members of the public and for specific offences of cheating in pursuance of that conspiracy.
that the several instances of cheating being alleged to be in pursuance of that conspiracy were parts of the same transaction and therefore the joint trial of the accused persons for the different offences was not vitiated.
in that case the impact of section 120 b i p c on sections 233 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure was considered by this court and this court observed.
mr bhimasankaram then relying upon the decision in r v dawson 1960 2 w l r 435 contended that in any event it was not desirable to try the respondents at the same trial for as many as 83 offences and pointed out that these observations had received the approval of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandimalla subbaiah 1962 2 b c r 194.
again what was said by this court was that it is undesirable to complicate a trial by introducing a large number of charges spread over a long period but even so this was a question of propriety which should be left to the discretion of the judge or magistrate trying the case.
the offence of conspiracy is an entirely independent offence and though other offences are committed in pursuance of the conspiracy the liability of the conspirators for the conspiracy itself can not disappear.
in the indian penal code as originally enacted conspiracy was not an offence.
section 120 b which makes criminal conspiracy punishable was added by the indian criminal law amendment act 1913 8 of 1913 along with section 120 a section 120 a defines conspiracy and section 120 b provides for the punishment for the offence of conspiracy.
criminal conspiracy as defined in section 120 a and consists of an agreement to do an illegal act or an agreement to do an act which is not illegal by illegal means.
section 120 b provides that whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards shall be punishable in the same manner as if he has abetted such offence unless there was an express provision in the code for the punishment of such conspiracy.
no doubt as already stated where offences for committing which a conspiracy was entered into have actually been committed it may not in the particular circumstances of a case be desirable to charge the offender both with the conspiracy and the offences committed in pursuance of that conspiracy.
as we are remanding the appeal to the high court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the evidence of the approver.
coming to the next point of mr bhimsankaram regarding the abuse of powers under section 342 his first contention was that long and involved questions were put to the respondents.
finally he said that the court did not perform its duty under section 342 4 of the code as amended as it failed to bring to the notice of the respondents that they may if they chose give evidence in their defence.
in support of his first contention he referred to questions nos 4 8 9 10 and 20 put to the respondent No i and question No 12 put to the respondent No 2 and tried to show that those questions rolled up a large number of separate questions and that it could not have been possible for the respondents to give any rational answers to those questions.
while we are disposed to agree with learned counsel that the questions embrace a number of matters and that it would have been better if those matters had been made the subjects of separate questions the answers given by the respondents clearly show that they understood the questions and wherever possible they have given complete answers to those questions.
we are informed that the questions had been prepared before hand by the learned additional sessions judge copies thereof were made available to each of the respondents and it was with reference to those copies that they gave their answers in the court.
undoubtedly the learned additional sessions judge has questioned the respondents very fully and elaborately but to say that this bordered on cross examination is wholly unjustifiable.
the object of the learned additional sessions judge quite clearly was as already stated to leave no loophole for a complaint to be made before the appellate court of incomplete or insufficient examination under section 342 finally we are clear that it was not the duty of the court to draw the pointed attention of the respondents to the provisions of sub s 4 of section 342 and tell them that they may if they chose enter the witness box.
it is true that by introducing this provision the disability placed on an accused person in respect of giving evidence on oath in his own defence has been removed and to that extent such person is placed on par with an accused person under the english law.
the irrelevant evidence to which mr bhimasankaram referred was certain account books.
the entries in the account books of vesco show that certain sums of money were paid to various parties crompton engineering co lumin electric co d brothers radio and electrical madras vizagapatam municipality p v ramanayya bros and andhra power system.
they also show payment case was that the payments which were entered in the account of vesco do not find a place in the account books of the corresponding firms or authorities because they were never made by vesco.
the high court has pointed out that the main evidence on which the prosecution rests its case that the amount represented by the entries against these various firms were in.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
lord robertson during the course of the hearing has observed that no inference can be drawn from the absence of any entry relating to any particular matter which observation supports the view taken in queen empress v girish chander banerjee 1884 i l r 10 c l 1024.
there is section ii of the evidence act which provides that facts not otherwise relevant are relevant if they are inconsistent with any fact in issue or relevant fact.
some of the facts in issue in this case are whether payments of certain sums of money were made to crompton engineering co and other firms or authorities.
the fact that no payments were received by those firms has been deposed to by persons connected with those firms and whose duty it was to receive and acknowledge amounts received by the firms or who were in charge of the accounts of these firms.
it may further be mentioned that the account books of vesco show certain payments made to billimoria co of kharagpur.
the prosecution case is that these receipts are forged documents and the entries in the account books of vesco are false.
the third point stressed by him was that the approver was allowed to refresh his memory while deposing in the case by referring extensively to the account books and various documents produced in the case.
