it was allegedly found that non alloy steel bars rods etc of value ranging from rs 15 to rs 17 per kg were exported in the guise of alloy steel forgings bars rods etc by declaring their value thereof from rs 110 to rs 150 per kg and the export proceeds over and above the actual price were being routed through hawala channel.
prabhjot singh allegedly admitted to have supplied fake bills to units owned and controlled by appellant on commission basis without actual supply of the goods.
it was also found that appellant had declared goods exported as alloy steel whereas after the tests conducted by central revenue control laboratory they were found to be other than alloy steeli e. non alloy.
on the aforementioned allegations an order of detention was issued on 5 4 2005 appellant moved for issuance of a writ of habeas corpus before the high court of judicature of punjab and haryana.
although before the high court the principal ground urged on behalf of appellant in questioning the legality or validity of the order of detention was unexplained delay in passing the order of detention which did not find favour with the high court.
before us several other grounds viz. non placement of vital material documents before the detaining authority non supply of documents relied on or referred to in the order of detention as also non application of mind on the part of the detaining authority had been raised.
a report in relation to overseas inquiry was received on 12 5 2004 on 25 6 2004 proposal of detention was sent which was approved on 2 12 2004 on.
20 12 2004the authorities of the dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny.
furthermore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellants.
the learned additional solicitor general who appeared on behalf of respondent has drawn our attention to a long list of dates showing that searches were conducted and statements of a large number of persons had to be recorded.
the final order of detention was preceded not only on the basis of raids conducted in various premises recording of statements of a large number of witnesses carrying on intensive inquiries both within india and outside india obtaining test reports from three different laboratories but also the fact that despite notices appellant and his associates did not cooperate with the investigating authorities.
they initiated various civil proceedings from time to time obtained various interim orders and thus delay in passing the order of detention can not be said to have not been explained.
learned counsel would contend that keeping in view the nature and magnitude of an offence under cofeposa a distinction must be made between an order of detention passed under cofeposa vis a vis other acts as per the law laid down by this court in rajendrakumar natvarlal shah v state of gujarat and others 1988 3 scc 153 1988 indlaw sc 71 and in that view of the matter the high court must be held to have arrived at a correct decision.
but we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2 12 2004the order of detention was passed after four months.
we must also notice that in the meantime on 20 12 2004the authorities of the dri had clearly stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under the scrutiny stating in our letter mentioned above your office was requested not to issue the depb scripts to m s girnar impex limited and m s siri amar exports only in respect of the pending application if any filed by these parties up to the date of action i e 11 10 2003 as the past exports were under scrutiny being doubtful as per the intelligence received in this office.
this office never intended to stop the export incentives occurring to the parties after the date of action i e 11 10 2003 in the civil your office letter.
furthermore as noticed hereinbefore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellant.
we may also place on record that sen j in rajendrakumar natvarlal shah 1988 indlaw sc 71 suprawhile laying down various stages of the procedures leading to an order of detention opined that rule as to unexplained delay in taking action is not inflexible and a detention under cofeposa may be considered from a different angle.
the question came up for consideration recently in rajinder arora v union of india and others 2006 4 scc 796 2006 indlaw sc 87 wherein it has been held furthermore no explanation whatsoever has been offered by the respondent as to why the order of detention has been issued after such a long time.
the question as regard delay in issuing the order of detention has been held to be a valid ground for quashing an order of detention by this court in t d abdul rahman v state of kerala and others air 1990 sc 225 1989 indlaw sc 205 stating the conspectus of the above decisions can be summarised thus the question whether the prejudicial activities of a person necessitating to pass an order of detention is proximate to the time when the order is made or the live link between the prejudicial activities and the purpose of detention is snapped depends on the facts and circumstances of each case.
similarly when there is unsatisfactory and unexplained delay between the date of order of detention and the date of securing the arrest of the detenu such a delay would throw considerable doubt on the genuineness of the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority leading to a legitimate inference that the detaining authority was not really and genuinely satisfied as regards the necessity for detaining the detenu with a view to preventing him from acting in a prejudicial manner.
serajul v state of west bengal 1975 2 scc 78 1974 indlaw sc 475this court opined there was thus delay at both stages and this delay unless satisfactorily explained would throw considerable doubt on the genuineness of the subjective satisfaction of the district magistrate burdwan recited in the order of detention.
in abdul salam alias thiyyan s o thiyyan mohammad detenu no 962general prison trivandrum v union of india and others 1990 3 scc 15 1990 indlaw sc 994 whereupon the learned additional solicitor general has placed strong reliance this court found that there had been potentiality or likelihood of prejudicial activities and thus or mere delay as long as it is explained the court may not strike down the detention.
in the instant case we have noticed hereinbefore that the authorities of dri themselves categorically stated that the activities of appellant after 11 10 2003 were not in question and in fact all the bank accounts were defreezed.
so far as the question of non placement of material documents before the detaining authority is concerned we may notice the following dates i by a letter dated 5 7 2002the authorities of dri stated that appellant stood exonerated for earlier years after detailed examination.
by a letter dated 20 12 2004the authorities of dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny and by letters dated 28 2 2005 and 7 3 2005the bank accounts of appellant were defreezed.
