interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
with a view to give effect to the provisions of the act and the rules framed thereunder proceedings were initiated for allotment of the said land in terms of the act 20 of the land was taken over without payment of any compensation.
respondent no 4 was allotted a final plot bearing no 157 and the said 200 sq m of land of plot no 178 has merged in final plot no 165 owned by the respondent no 3.
the scheme was notified in the year 1999 respondent no 1 herein which is the statutory agency in terms of the act for the purpose of implementation of the scheme issued a notice u s 67 of the act upon the respondent no 4 on or about 15 01 2000 as he did not respond thereto a notice u s 68 of the act was served on him on 31 03 2000 stating as per the said approved preliminary scheme the plot no 157 is allotted to you.
therefore as per the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 rule 33 the undersigned in exercise of powers conferred below s 681 and 82 of the bombay provincial municipalities act and below the s 68 notice under the gujarat town planning and urban development act this is to inform you that as shown in the sketch on the reverse the premises marked should be vacated within 7 days from receipt of the notice and had over the possession to the surat municipal corporation.
if you fail to do so then on completion of the stipulated time limit as per the rule 33 of the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 the said land and the occupation on the same will be summarily evicted and your occupation will be removed and if you obstruct interfere on it after taking away the possession you trespass then as provided under rule 33 of the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
the validity and or legality of the said notice was questioned by the appellant by filing a writ petition in the high court of gujarat inter alia contending that the purported final allotment of plot no 165 in favour of the respondent no 3 and allotment of final plot no 157 in favour of the respondent no 4 were made without issuing any notice as envisaged u ss 52 and 53 of the act.
in the said writ petition it was prayed on the facts and circumstances mentioned herein above the petitioner prays to your lordships that a be pleased to issue writ of mandamus or writ in the nature of mandamus or appropriate writ order or direction quashing and setting aside the impugned action of acquiring and demolishing the structures available on the land in question i e original plot no 17 a r s no 17 p situated at umra surat.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
further it appears that if the interest of the landlord and of the tenant is common and in absence of any inter se dispute between the landlord and tenant even if any portion of the land which is in possession of the tenant is included in the scheme the proper remedy for the tenant would be to claim for compensation to that extent and if such compensation is not received by him he may resort to proper remedy available for recovery of the compensation to the extent of the area in his occupation.
but if the area of original plot no 178 is included in the final scheme and in exchange of the original plot held by keshav gramini of 178 and 177the final plot is already allotted and as observed earlier it was even otherwise in the ownership of the original holder and it is only on account of inter se dispute the other persons are lawfully occupying the land the tenant can not insist that his landlord must be allotted the land of final plot no 157 simultaneously when he is to be evicted or deprived of the portion of the land of original plot no 178 therefore in my view considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case the decision of the apex court in case of mansukhlal1991 indlaw sc 975 supra can not be made applicable to the present case.
mr u u lalit learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant in support of this appeal inter alia would submit i. the provisions of ss 52 and 81 being imperative in character no acquisition of land is permissible without service of any notice upon the persons interested which would include a tenant in occupation and carrying on business thereon.
appellant having a right over the remaining 200 sq m of the land of original plot no 178 should be allowed to continue thereupon and final allotment made in favour of the respondent no 3 to that extent should be cancelled.
lalit in support of his contention strongly relied upon a decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji darji and others v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 1 scc 384 1991 indlaw sc 975 and jaswantsingh mathurasingh and another v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 supp 1 scc 5 1991 indlaw sc 972.
ii respondent no 1 corporation merely being interested in the implementation of the scheme is entitled to obtain vacant possession from him so as to enable it to deliver it to the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been finally allotted.
the act was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to the making and execution of development plans and town planning schemes in the state of gujarat.
whereof inter alia enables allotment of a final plot from an original plot by transfer of any adjoining lands.
it inter alia provides for giving of a notice by the town planning officer as follows 1 in a preliminary scheme the town planning officer shall.
i after giving notice in the prescribed manner and in the prescribed form to the persons affected by the scheme define and demarcate the areas allotted to or reserved for any public purpose or for a purpose of the appropriate authority and the final plots ii after giving notice as aforesaid determine in a case in which a final plot is to be allotted to persons in ownership in common the shares of such persons.
further sub s 3 of section 65ss 67 and 68 of the act read as under 65 power of government to sanction or refuse to sanction the scheme and effect of sanction.
shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances b all rights in the original plots which have been re constituted into final plots shall determine and the final plots shall become subject to the rights settled by the town planning officer.
for the purpose of preparing the preliminary scheme and final scheme the town planning officer shall give notice in form h of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state the time as provided in rule 37 within which the owner of any property or right which is injuriously affected by the making of a town planning scheme shall be entitled u s 82 to make a claim before him.
such notice shall be published in the official gazette and in one or more gujarati newspapers circulated within the area of the appropriate authority and shall be pasted in prominent places at or near the areas comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
the town planning officer shall before proceeding to deal with the matters specified in section 52publish a notice in form h in the official gazette and in one or more gujarati newspapers circulating within the area of the appropriate authority.
c if the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or servant deputed u cl b or.
it makes it obligatory on the part of the officer to give notice of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state therein the time within which the owner of any property or rights which is injuriously affected by the making of the town planning scheme shall be advertised in one or more newspapers published in the regional language and circulating within the jurisdiction of the local authority and shall be posted in prominent places at or near the area comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for serving of a special notice of at least three clear days upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular area comprised in the scheme before the town planning officer proceeds to deal in detail with the portion of the scheme relating thereto.
sub rule 4 makes it imperative upon the town planning officer to give all persons affected by any particular of the scheme sufficient opportunity of stating their views and shall not give any decision till he has duly considered their representations if any.
any person affected by the proposal of the town planning scheme is entitled to inspect the scheme in the office where arrangements for explaining the scheme proposals are made.
it furthermore provides that any person entitled to claim damages in terms of s 82 of the act should communicate the details of his claim to the town planning officer.
s 81 of the act enables the state to transfer of right from original to final plot or extinction of such right.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
we may however notice that rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for notice under sub rule 3 thereof and a reasonable opportunity of hearing under sub rule 5 thereof.
sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for issuance of a special notice upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular plot comprised in the scheme.
