that around 00 30 am the appellant again came into her house and touched her daughter in law sheela devi who woke up and raised an alarm and that the appellant immediately ran away.
on that basis the following charge was framed by the judicial magistrate first class karnal against the appellant that on 23 3 1996after having made preparation for causing hurt or assault you committed house trespass into the house of smt.
prakashi devi and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 452 ipc within my cognizance.
secondly on the same date time and place you assaulted and used criminal force against abovenamed prakashi devi with intent to outrage her modesty and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 354 ipc and within my cognizance.
prakashi devi was examined as pw 1 she reiterated what was recorded in the fir that the appellant came into the house around 11 30 pm and broke the bulbs that he came again around 00 30 am and touched her daughter in law sheela devi and when her daughter in law woke up and raised an alarm the appellant ran away.
in her cross examination prakashi devi stated that she has five sons that only her husband and one son named mahavir were staying with her that the other four sons were married and were not staying with her that on that night her husband was away in the fields and her son mahavir was also not present in the house.
however when confronted with her statement recorded in the fir she admitted having stated that when the appellant had come first time at around 11 30 pm and broke the outside bulbs her son woke up and went out of the house.
her daughter in law sheela devi gave evidence as pw 2 and stated that she was married to one jaibir who worked in the military services that at 11 to 11 30 pm the accused scaled the door and broke the bulbs in the verandah of her house that when she identified the accused and raised an alarm the accused ran away that again he came around 00 30 am by scaling the door and caught her hand and that when she raised an alarm and when her mother in law woke up he ran away.
the investigating officer was examined as pw 3 the accused examined a witness ex sarpanch of the village as dw 1 and he stated that there was a quarrel between the accused and complainant 's son surinder about a water course and subsequently he came to know that the quarrel was converted into a false case against the accused by registering a false allegation that the accused had outraged the modesty of a woman.
the learned magistrate by judgment dated 2 2 2001held the accused guilty of offences u ss 452 and 354 cr.
one of the contentions urged by the accused before the appellate court and high court was that the charge against him was that he attempted to outrage the modesty of prakashi devi pw 1 whereas the evidence was to show that he attempted to outrage the modesty of her daughter in law sheela devi.
the following question therefore arises for our consideration when the charge is that the accused assaulted x and outraged her modesty but the evidence is that he assaulted y to outrage her modesty can the accused be punished for having assaulting and outraging the modesty of yeven though he was not charged with any offence with reference to yon the ground that the error or omission in the charge did not prejudice the accused or result in failure of justice.
s 215 of the code however clarifies that no error in stating either the offence or the particulars required to be stated in the charge and no omission to state the offence or those particulars shall be regarded at any stage of the case as material unless the accused was in fact misled by such error or omission and it has occasioned a failure of justice.
s 464 of the code relates to effect of omission to frame or absence of or error in charge.
sub s 1 thereof provides that no finding sentence or order of a court of competent jurisdiction shall be deemed invalid merely on the ground that no charge was framed or on the ground of any error omission or irregularity in the charge including any misjoinder of charge unless in the opinion of the court of appeal confirmation or revision a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby.
sub s 2 of sec 464 provides that if the court of appeal confirmation or revision is of opinion that failure of justice has in fact been occasioned it may a in the case of an omission to frame a charge order that a charge be framed and that the trial be recommended from the point immediately after the framing of the charge b in case of an error omission or irregularity in the charge direct a new trial to be had upon a charge framed in whatever manner it thinks fit.
air 1956 sc 116 1955 indlaw sc 80 this court explained the concepts of prejudice to the accused and failure of justice thus 6 before we proceed to set out our answer and examine the provisions of the code we will pause to observe that the code is a code of procedure and like all procedural laws is designed to further the ends of justice and not to frustrate them by the introduction of endless technicalities.
if he does if he is tried by a competent court if he is told and clearly understands the nature of the offence for which he is being tried if the case against him is fully and fairly explained to him and he is afforded a full and fair opportunity of defending himself then provided there is substantial compliance with the outward forms of the law mere mistakes in procedure mere inconsequential errors and omissions in the trial are regarded as venal by the code and the trial is not vitiated unless the accused can show substantial prejudice.
in gurbachan singh v state of punjab air 1957 sc 623 1957 indlaw sc 181 following willie slaney this court held in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
2001 indlaw sc 19904this court considered the meaning of the expression failure of justice occurring in s 464 of cr.
one of the cardinal principles of natural justice is that no man should be condemned without being heardaudi alteram partem but the law reports are replete with instances of courts hesitating to approve the contention that failure of justice had occasioned merely because a person was not heard on a particular aspect.
6 scc 554 1998 indlaw sc 1286dalbir singh v state of up 2004 5 scc 334 2004 indlaw sc 247dumpala chandra reddy vs nimakayala bali reddy 2008.
8 scc 339 2008 indlaw sc 1064 and sanichar sahni vs state of bihar 2009 7 scc 198 2009 indlaw sc 736.
the charge must also contain the particulars of date time place and person against whom the offence was committed as are reasonably sufficient to give the accused notice of the matter with which he is charged.
where an accused is charged with having committed offence against one person but on the evidence led he is convicted for committing offence against another person without a charge being framed in respect of it the accused will be prejudiced resulting in a failure of justice.
