this appeal is directed against the final judgment and order dated 03 10 2007 passed by the high court of judicature andhra pradesh at hyderabad in criminal appeal no 436 of 2001 whereby the high court dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant herein and confirmed the judgment dated 19 03 2001 passed by the special judge c b i cases visakhapatnam in c c no 2 of 1998.
brief facts a the appellant accused was working as a head clerk in the traffic cadre section in the office of the senior divisional personnel officer south central railway vijayawada during the period from april1992 to november1997 the nature of duties of the appellant accused included dealing with and processing of the matters like promotions transfers seniority list roster list pay fixation on promotions retirements resignations etc of the personnel.
as the appellant accused was dealing with the transfers the complainant pw 1 met him on 05 11 1997 at his office to pursue about the issuance of the said transfer order.
on 15 11 1997at 7 30 a m. an fir was registered by the inspector cbi visakhapatnam branch in crime No. rc 20a97 vsp after recording the statements of the witnesses inspector of police cbi visakhapatnam filed charge sheet being no 298 ytr dated 29 04 1998 against the appellant accused for an offence punishable under sections 7131dii read with s 132 of the prevention of corruption act1988 hereinafter referred to as the act in the court of special judge for cbi cases at visakhapatnam.
the special judge cbi by order dated 19 03 2001convicted the appellant and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u s 7 of the act and one year rigorous imprisonment with a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u ss 131d ii.
g against the said order the appellant accused filed criminal appeal no 436 of 2001 before the high court of andhra pradesh.
the high court by impugned judgment dated 03 10 2007 dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant accused and confirmed the conviction passed by the trial court.
heard mr atm rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant and mr harish chandra learned senior counsel for the respondent.
on 28 01 2008this court consisting of three honourable judges issued notice in this matter confining to the quantum of sentence only.
in pursuance of the same we permitted mr rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant to address his arguments confining to quantum of sentence imposed on the appellant accused.
as stated in the narration of facts the appellant was convicted u s 7 of the act for which he was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 in default simple imprisonment for one month.
he was also convicted for the offence under s 131dii read with s 132 of the act and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year and fine of rs 500 in default simple imprisonment for one month.
however mr rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant by drawing our attention to the recent judgment of this court in yomeshbhai pranshankar bhatt vs state of gujarat2011 6 scc 312 2011 indlaw sc 370submitted that in spite of limited notice this court while exercising jurisdiction u art 142 of the constitution in order to do complete justice while hearing the matter finally can go into the merits of the orders passed by the trial court and the high court.
in the reported case the appeal was against the concurrent finding of both the courts convicting the appellant u s 302 ipc and sentencing him to suffer imprisonment for life.
at the slp stage this court by order dated 27 07 2009issued notice confined only to the question as to whether the petitioner was guilty of commission of an offence under any of the parts of s 304 indian penal code1860 in short ipc and not u s 302 ipc similar request was made before the bench that the appellant was entitled to urge all the questions including his right to urge that he should have been acquitted in the facts and circumstances of the case.
it further shows that the court considered the plea of the appellant therein for acquittal despite the fact that the notice was limited in terms of the order dated 27 07 2009 it is relevant to point out that the bench in para 18clarified the position and reopened the case in its entirety even though notice was issued confining to a particular aspect.
it is clear that the bench itself has clarified that they are not laying down the law that in spite of issuing notice confining to a particular aspect in the case on hand quantum of sentence the parties are entitled to urge all points and re open the case as if they are free to do the same without any restriction.
as a matter of fact the last sentence in para 18 makes it clear that in the facts and circumstances of that case they permitted the appellants to urge all points on merits.
inasmuch as both the courts have thoroughly discussed the oral and documentary evidence with reference to the charges leveled against the appellant and in view of the limited order dated 28 01 2008 by this court issuing notice confining to quantum of sentence only and even applying the analogy enunciated in yomeshbhai 2011 indlaw sc 370 suprawe feel that it is not a case of such nature that the appellant should be heard on all points consequently we reject the request of the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant.
mr rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that inasmuch as the alleged incident took place on 14 11 1997 and 14 years have elapsed since then the amount of rs 200 said to have been received by the appellant is trivial in nature and also of the fact that due to the said conviction and sentence he lost his job leniency may be shown and sentence be reduced to the period already undergone.
with this factual position let us consider whether the request of the learned senior counsel for the appellant is to be accepted and sentence be reduced to the period already undergone.
it is not in dispute that the provisions of the prevention of corruption act1988 alone are applicable since the incident occurred on 14 11 1997 i e subsequent to the act.
s 7 of the act relates to public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act.
the said section reads as under public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act whoever being or expecting to be a public servant accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other person any gratification whatever other than legal remuneration as a motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any official act or for showing or forbearing to show in the exercise of his official functions favour or disfavor to any person or for rendering or attempting to render any service or disservice to any person with the central government or any state government or parliament or the legislature of any state or with any local authority corporation or government company referred to in cl c of section 2or with any public servant whether named or otherwise shall be punishable with imprisonment which shall be not less than six months but which may extend to five years and shall also be liable to fine emphasis supplied.
a public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct a if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other person any gratification other than legal remuneration as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in section 7 or b if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain for himself or for any other person any valuable thing without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate from any person whom he knows to have been or to be or to be likely to he concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or about to be transacted by him or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate or from any person whom he knows to be interests in or related to the person so concerned or c if he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do or d if he i by corrupt or illegal means obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage or ii by abusing his position as a public servant obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage or iii.
while holding office as a public servant obtains for any person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public interest or e if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has at any time during the period of his office been in possession for which the public servant can not satisfactorily account of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
in order to substantiate the claim with the regard to the above learned senior counsel for the appellant has relied on the decision of this court in bechaarbhai s prajapati vs state of gujarat2008 11 scc 163 2008 indlaw sc 297 and based on the same requested this court to modify the sentence to the extent of period already undergone.
finally the special judge framed charges for offence punishable under sections 712131d read with s 132 of the act.
pc the minimum sentence being six months and of the fact that he had suffered custody for more than six months the course adopted by this court is perfectly in order and the same can not be applied to the case on hand wherein the appellant had undergone only 52 days when the minimum sentence was six months u s 7 and one year u s 13.
learned senior counsel for the appellant further submitted that inasmuch as the incident had occurred on 14 11 1997 and the trial court has convicted him on 19 03 2001 which was affirmed by the high court on 03 10 2007at this juncture i e. after a gap of 14 years there is no need to retain the same sentence and the court is not justified in directing the appellant to serve the remaining period after such a long time.
there is no dispute as regards the date of occurrence and the date of conviction passed by the trial court and affirmed by the high court.
inasmuch as the conviction on both counts have been confirmed by this court and we are confined to sentence part alone and in view of the minimum sentence prescribed u ss 7 and 13 of the act we are of the view that though long delay may be a ground for reduction of sentence in other cases the same may not be applicable to the case on hand when the statute prescribes minimum sentence.
it was further contended that the amount alleged to have been received by the appellant accused is only rs 200 and he also lost his job after conviction by the trial court.
as has been aptly observed in swatantar singh v state of haryana1997 4 scc 14 1997 indlaw sc 1061corruption is corroding like cancerous lymph nodes the vital veins of the body politics social fabric of efficiency in the public service and demoralising the honest officers.
by drawing our attention to art 142 of the constitution of india learned senior counsel for the appellant vehemently submitted that in order to do complete justice this court has ample power to reduce the sentence even to the extent of period already undergone or any other order which would be beneficial to the parties approaching this court.
the said hma no 456 of 2009 came before the court and it recorded the statement of parties on 16 11 2009 the parties moved another hma no 457 of 2009 to waive the statutory period of six months in filing the second petition.
