this appeal is preferred against the judgment dated 19 8 2011 passed by the high court of punjab and haryana in criminal appeal no 181 sb of 2000 whereby the high court partly allowed the appeal filed by the appellants thereby confirming the conviction of the appellants with certain modifications.
raju a 2 gave a pharsi blow on the head of sukhbir jage ram a 1 caused injury to jagdish pw 5 with two jaily blows.
additionally madan and rakesh attacked the complainant with lathi blows on shoulder and left elbow respectively and caused several other injuries to the complainant party.
the injured witnesses were taken to the primary health centre taoru where dr pardeep kumar medical officer medically examined the injured persons.
a ct scan disclosed that large extra dural haematoma was found in the frontal region with mass effect and sukhbir needed urgent surgery and he was operated upon and the large extra dural haematoma was removed.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 also examined the other injured persons pw 5 jagdish and pw.
statement of jagdish was recorded based on which f i r was registered at police station taoru gurgaon under sections 323 324 325 and 307 read with section 34 ipc.
he examined the witnesses and after completion of investigation challan was filed under sections 307 325 324 read with section 34 ipc.
in the trial court prosecution examined nine witnesses including jagdish pw5 mange ram pw6 and dr prem kumar pw2 and dr hiiol kanti pal pw9.
first accused jage ram pleaded that on the date of occurrence complainant party jagdish and his sons mange ram and sukhbir forcibly trespassed into the land belonging to the accused and attempted to forcibly cut the pullas.
upon consideration of oral and documentary evidence the learned additional sessions judge vide judgment dated 17 2 2000 convicted all the accused persons sections 307 and 325 ipc and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for five years and one year respectively and a fine of rs 500 each with default clause.
aggrieved by the said judgment the accused appellants filed criminal appeal before the high court of punjab and haryana.
the high court vide impugned judgment dated 19 8 2011 modified the judgment of the trial court thereby convicted jage ram a 1 section 325 ipc and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year convicted second accused rajbir.
307 ipc and imposed sentence of imprisonment for five years as well the fine of rs 500 was confirmed by the high court.
sentence section 325 ipc two counts was modified as the sentence section 323 ipc and he was sentenced to undergo six months rigorous imprisonment.
high court modified the sentence of madan a 3 rakesh a 4 section 323 ipc and sentenced them to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months two counts respectively.
it was submitted that injured witness sukhbir was not examined in the court and neither ct scan nor x ray nor operational notes of sukhbir were produced before the court and in the absence of such material evidence courts below erred in convicting the second accused section.
per contra learned counsel appearing for the respondent state contended that the evidence of all the witnesses satisfactorily establishes the overt act of the accused persons and jagdish pw 5 and mange ram pw 6 being the injured witnesses the veracity of these witnesses can not be doubted.
it was submitted that the medical evidence sufficiently corroborated the oral evidence and the prosecution has established the intention of the 2nd accused in causing attempt to commit murder of sukhbir and in appreciation of the evidence courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the second accused section 307 ipc and the same warrants no interference.
as it emerges from the evidence complainant jagdish pw 5 and his two sons sukhbir and mange ram were cutting pullas.
pws 5 6 have clearly spoken about the overt act of the accused that a 1 jage ram attacked and caused injury to pw 5 jagdish with jaily blows and that second accused rajbir.
they have also stated that madan and rakesh caused injuries to pw5 jagdish with lathi on shoulder and left elbow respectively.
2 dr pardeep kumar in his evidence stated that he has examined pws 5 and 6 and noted the injuries on the body of pws 5 and 6 and issued wound certificates.
appellants have raised the contention that the prosecution failed to adduce evidence that a 2 rajbir attempted to commit murder of sukhbir.
it was submitted that injured person sukhbir was neither examined nor medical evidence like ct scan x ray and operational notes and sukhbir were produced to corroborate the oral evidence and while so courts below erred in convicting second accused rajbir.
dr pardeep kumar pw 2 who examined sukhbir found during his medico legal examination a lacerated wound in the middle of the top of the skull.
injured sukhkbir was found vomiting in the hospital and he was examined by a neuro surgeon dr hilol kanti pal pw 9 of safdarjung hospital delhi on 19 11 1994 i e the day after the incident.
pw 9 has stated that sukhbir was unconscious since 2 00 p m on 18 11 1994 and was deeply comatose with irregularity of pupils and a laceration was diagnosed on the right front parietal region.
further pw 9 has stated that during the ct scan it was revealed that a large extra dural haemotoma was present in the frontal region with mass effect and to avoid further deterioration of his condition he was operated upon by frontal trephine craniopmy an haemotoma measuring about 125 ml was evacuated.
pw 9 stated that had not the operation been conducted on sukhbir and had not the extra dural haemotoma removed by operation urgently the head injury caused to sukhbir would have caused his death.
for the purpose of conviction section 307 ipc prosecution has to establish i the intention to commit murder and ii the act done by the accused.
to justify a conviction section 307 ipc it is not essential that fatal injury capable of causing death should have been caused.
the intention of the accused is to be gathered from the circumstances like the nature of the weapon used words used by the accused at the time of the incident motive of the accused parts of the body where the injury was caused and the nature of injury and severity of the blows given etc.
this position was highlighted in state of maharashtra v balram bama patil 1983 2 scc 28 1983 indlaw sc 414 girija shanker v state of u p 2004 3 scc 793 2004 indlaw sc 78 and r prakash v state of karnataka 2004 9 scc 27 2004 indlaw sc 117.
having regard to the weapon used for causing the head injuries to sukhbir nature of injures situs of the injury and the severity of the blows courts below recorded concurrent findings convicting the 2nd appellant section in our considered view the conviction of the second appellant rajbir.
placing reliance upon the judgment of this court in hari singh vs sukhbir singh ors 1988 4 scc 551 1988 indlaw sc 27 learned counsel for the appellants additionally submitted that in terms of section 357 3 cr.
for the conviction section 307 ipc courts below imposed upon the 2nd appellant rigorous imprisonment of five years while imposing punishment courts have an obligation to award appropriate punishment.
vide state of m p vs bablu natt 2009 2 scc 272 2008 indlaw sc 2027 alister anthony pareira vs state of maharashtra 2012 2 scc 648 2012 indlaw sc 12 and soman vs state of kerala 2013 11 scc 382 2012 indlaw sc.
in the light of the above considering the case in hand the occurrence was of the year 1994 when the complainant party was cutting pullas the accused asked them not to cut the pullas which resulted in the wordy altercation.
having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case in our considered view the period of sentence of five years may be reduced to three years apart from directing the second appellant rajbir.
