one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
before his death he executed a will on 16th november 1924 the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
by this will he gave the following directions after my lifetime you the aforesaid ranganayaki amminal my wife shall till your lifetime enjoy the aforesaid entire properties the outstandings due to me the debts payable by me and the chit amounts payable by me.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
ranganayaki entered into possession of the properties on the death of her husband.
on 21st february 1928 she settled the maintenance claim of lakshmi ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of rs 3350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of rs 240 per annum.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
on the 24th july 1945 the widow describing herself as an absolute owner of the properties of her husband sold one of the items of the property to the 2nd defendant for rs 500.
on the 18th september 1945 the suit out of which this appeal arises was instituted by the plaintiff the husband and the sole heir of ramalakshmi for a declaration that the said sale would not be binding on him beyond the lifetime of the widow.
a prayer was made that the widow be restrained from alienating the other properties in her possession.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband s estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
the plaintiff was allowed to amend his plaint and include therein a prayer for a declaration in respect of the invalidity of these alienations as well.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow s estate and whether the daughter s interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
the subordinate judge held that the widow took under the will a limited life interest and not an absolute estate or even a widow s estate under hindu law and that the daughter got there under a vested interest in the properties to which the plaintiff succeeded on her death.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
the question as to the validity of the alienations was left undetermined.
the unsuccessful defendants preferred an appeal against this decree to the high court of judicature at madras.
during the pendency of the appeal the widow died on 14th february 1948.
the high court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
leave to appeal to the supreme court was granted and the appeal was admitted on the 27th november 1951.
the substantial question to decide in the appeal is whether the estate granted by the testator to his widow was a fall woman s estate under hindu law or merely a limited life estate in the english sense of that expression.
the court s primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
in other words to ascertain his wishes by putting itself so to say in his armchair.
considering the will in the light of these principles it seems to us that lakshminarayan iyer intended by his will to direct that his entire properties should be enjoyed by his widow during her lifetime but her interest in these properties should come to an end on her death that all these properties in their entirety should thereafter be enjoyed as absolute owners by his daughter and her heirs with powers of alienation gift exchange and sale from generation to generation.
he wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue male or female may have the benefit of his property.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
the extent of the grant so far as the properties mentioned in the schedule are concerned to the daughter and the widow is the same.
by this transaction she substituted one property by another.
she had complete control over the income of the property during her lifetime.
but she had no power to deal with the corpus of the estate.
and it had to be kept intact for the enjoyment of the daughter.
and she thus got an interest in it on the testator s death.
vide sasiman v shib narain 491.
a 2 5.
mr krishnaswami iyengar sought to derive the greatest support for his contention from the decision in ram bahadur v jager.
nath prasad 3 pat.
l j 199.
but as regards the immovable property none shall have the lest right of alienation.
the restraint against alienation was repugnant to both a life estate and a widow estate and was not therefore taken into account.
but there were other indications in that will showing that a widow s estate had been given.
reliance was next placed on the decision in pavani subbamma v ammala rama naidu 1937.
1 m l j 268.
1936 indlaw mad 236.
a suit was instituted by the son s daughter for the recovery of possession of her share in one item of property forming part of the estate which had been sold by section the question for decision in that case was whether section was at all entitled to sell anything more than her life interest even for purposes of meeting a necessity binding upon the estate.
this decision therefore goes against the contention of the learned counsel but he placed reliance on the observations made in the judgment when the learned judge proceeded to say in deference to the view taken in maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad 1 it may be possible to create an interest analogous to a woman s estate in hindu law notwithstanding the addition of a gift over and that the estate taken by section need not necessarily be only a life estate in the english law sense of the term.
assuming that it is possible to create a hindu woman s estate not with standing the addition of a gift over the question nevertheless whether that had been done in a given case must depend on the terms of the particular instrument under consideration.
the following remarks in the privy council decision in nathu ram mahajan v gangayabai 1938.
2 m l j 562 were next cited as the will gave her the right to enjoy the income of the estate during her lifetime it was evidently contemplated that she should as provided by the hindu law in the case of a widow be in possession of the estate.
in vasantharao ammannamma v venkata kodanda rao pantalu 1939.
indlaw mad 621 1940.
he omits the words during her life with reference to the disposition in favour of the daughter.
if it was the daughter s estate that was intended to be conferred there can be no question that the estate taken by the grandsons is not a vested interest.
reliance was next placed on maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad.
the last decision referred to was the decision of the privy council in mahomed shumsool v shewukram 1874 indlaw pc 12 1874 75 2 i a 7 there a hindu inhabitant of bihar by a document of a testamentary character declared his daughter who had two daughters as his heir and after her two daughters together with their children were declared heirs and malik.
the question in every case can not be determined merely on the theory that every hindu thinks only about a hindu widow s estate and no more.
what is given must be gathered from the language of the will in the light of the surrounding circumstances.
he also on the analogy of other wills and the decisions given on their terms wanted a decision on the construction of this will in his favour.
in the first instance he placed reliance on a decision of the madras high court in ratna chetty v narayana swami chetty 19i4 26 m l j 616.
and then my wife would enjoy all the remaining properties with absolute rights.
if both of them would live together amicably muthu arunachala chetty himself would enjoy the properties which remain after the death of the widow.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
there was a clear prohibition forbidding the widow to make any transfers of the milkiuit estates and the slaves.
reference was also made to a decision of the bombay high court in lallu v jagmohan 1898 i l r 22 bom.
and my wife has powers to do in the same way as i have absolute powers to do when i am present and in case of my wife s death my daughter mahalaxmi is owner of the said property after that.
both the learned counsel eventually conceded that the language used in the will was consistent with the testator s intention of conferring a life estate in the english sense as well as with the intention of conferring a hindu widow s estate.
appeal dismissed.
