whether the appellant herein and his father had sublet the premises in question in or about 1960 in terms of section 131e of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control act1947.
hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
the appellant claimed to be the tenant in respect of the two premises which are quite adjacent to each other one of which is involved in this appeal.
the respondent is the landlord of the two premises and these were situated at raikhad ward ahmedabad.
the respondent had alleged in the two suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased out to him and before him his father for conducting the business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works.
the respondent had further alleged that the appellant no 1 had closed the business and he was not using the said premises for the purpose for which it was let to him.
it was the case of the appellant that in respect of the suit premises he was carrying on his business with respondents.
bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
however the document is silent as to where the business was started.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
in 1965 some partners retired and the remaining four partners executed a fresh partnership deed exhibit 117 on 1st.
april1965 this last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants.
it is well settled that if there was such a partnership firm of which the appellant was a partner as a tenant the same would not amount to subletting leading to the forfeiture of the tenancy.
for this proposition see the decision of the gujarat high court in the case of mehta jagjivan vanechand v doshi vanechand harakhchand and others.
a i r 1972 gujarat 6 1970 indlaw guj 68 thakkar j of the gujarat high court as the learned judge then was held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession.
this view is now concluded by the decision of this court in madras bangalore transport co west v inder singh and others1986 3 s c c 62 1986.
indlaw sc 748.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
it accordingly decreed the suit for possession instituted by the landlord.
the suit inter alia was filed by the landlord on the ground of subletting.
in the premises the appeal was allowed.
the partnership deeds were there the appellant was not to share in the losses.
the high court in revision reversed that finding.
the agreement must be to share profits of business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
the partnership deeds were there entitling the petitioner to share in the partnership.
it is true that in the partnership deeds the bank accounts were not to be operated by the appellant and further that irrespective of the profit.
the clause of the partnership deed provided that there should be a fixed percentage of profit to be given to the partner appellant no 1 the appellant was not to share the losses.
but there is nothing illegal about it.
the appellant was to bring his asset being the tenancy of the premises in question for the user of the partnership.
but the question is from the three deeds itself which were examined in detail by the court of small causes and which were re examined by the high court could it be said unequivocally that there was no partnership.
there was evidence of suit of dissolution of the partnership where none of the partners took the plea that it was a false or a fictitious document.
all these factors were present before the court of small causes.
that in the partnership deed which is not necessary to recite the terms the petitioner was completely excluded in operating the bank accounts etc.
in the eye of law such a clause is really non sequitur or neutral proving neither the existence nor non existence of a genuine firm.
in this the appellant was not a partner.
1 the entire work of our partnership has to be carried out in the name of bharat neon signs.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
there was nothing intrinsically wrong in law in constituting a partnership in the manner it was done.
this is also not inconsistent with treating the rent of the firm in the context of the total expenditure of the firm.
in any event all these factors were considered by the court of small causes bearing in mind the correct legal principles.
this court in hari shankar v rao girdhari lal chowdhury1962 1 suppl.
the expression according to law in section 35 of the said act referred to the decision as a whole and was not to be equated to errors of law or of fact simpliciter.
this view had also been expressed in the decision of this court in puranchand v motilal1963.
supp 2 s c r 906 1962 indlaw sc 455.
this principle was reiterated in krishnawati v hans raj1974 2 s c r 524 1973 indlaw sc 208 which was dealing with section 392 of the delhi rent control act1958 in second appeal.
in that case the question whether the appellant was legally married no finding was necessary in the eviction suit.
in phiroze bamanji desai v chandrakant m patel ors 1974 3 scr 267 1974 indlaw sc 282 the question involved was whether there was reasonable and bona fide requirement of premises for personal use and occupation as also the question of greater hardship under the bombay rent act and the ambit and scope of the power of section 293 of the said act with which we are concerned came up for consideration.
we must take note of a decision in the case of m s kasturbhai ramchand panchal brothers and others v firm of mohanlal nathubhai and others air 1969 gujarat 110 1967 indlaw guj 57upon which the high court had placed great reliance in the judgment under appeal.
it extended to corrections of all errors which would make the decision contrary to law.
he dealt with the human problem under section 132 of bombay rent act considering the relative hardships of the landlord and the tenant and to arrive at a just solution he was of the opinion that the court should have such wide field.
in this view in our opinion the ambit of the power was expressed in rather wide amplitude.
as we read the power the high court must ensure that the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind.
if a possible view has been taken the high court would be exceeding its jurisdiction to substitute its own view with that the courts below because it considers it to be a better view.
in the case of punamchandra revashankar joshi v ramjibhai maganlal gujarat law reporter.
1966the gujarat high court after dealing with the gujarat amendment act xviii of 1965 observed that the legislature has not intended to equate the ambit of the power with the one exercised in an appeal.
the authority vested in the high court under the amendment still remained only in the domain of the jurisdiction and power of revision and no further.
the amending provision therefore only related to procedure and not to any rights of the parties.
this court in the case of bhai chand ratanshi v laxmishanker tribhavan1982 1 rent control journal 2421981.
indlaw sc 244 observed that where lower courts applied their minds properly in deciding a matter under section 132 of the bombay rent act the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence under section 292 of the act as substituted by the gujarat act 18 of 1965 this court reiterated that although the high court had wider power than that which could be exercised under section 115 of c p c yet its revisional power could only be exercised for a limited purpose with a view to satisfying itself that the decision was according to law.
in the instant case the basic question is whether keeping in background the partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore and the facts that came to light was there partnership or not.
this view was reiterated by chief justice beaumont in chimanram motilal and another v jayantilal chhaganlal and another a i r 1939 bombay 410 1939 indlaw mum 155 ramaswami j in mohammed musa sahib dead and others v n k mohammed ghouse sahib and another a i r 1959.
he also referred to section 4 of the partnership act about the principles of partnership namely1 there must be agreement entered into by all the persons concerned 2 the agreement must be to share the profits of a business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
in the instant case judged by the aforesaid principles it is possible to hold that there was a partnership of which the appellant was a partner.
if that was so there was nothing that could be clone about such a view within the ambit and scope of the power of section 292 of the rent act.
we may mention that in gundalapalli rangamannar chetty v desu rangiah and others a i r 1954.
in the light of the aforesaid principles and the facts that have emerged we are of the opinion that the high court exceeded its jurisdiction under section 292 of the rent act.
we are further of the opinion that the court of small causes was right in the view it took.
and it was a possible view to take.
in the result the appeal is allowed and the judgment and order of the gujarat high court dated 21st of august1979 are set aside.
the appellant herein is entitled to the costs throughout.
appeal allowed.
