these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
background facts.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
the family of the appellants consists of four brothers their wives children and their widowed mother.
the said nine flats it is said were merged and redesigned for joint living of the entire family.
the appellants herein and the said.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
proceedings before the special court.
before the learned special court the parties herein filed several applications which can be sub divided in three categories as would be noticed shortly hereinafter.
it is not in dispute that the learned special court on or about 3 august 1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1 april 1990 and 8 june 1992 i e the date of the notification.
three firms of chartered accountants were appointed to prepare statement of accounts and liabilities of each of the appellants herein.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
a misc.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
the appellants herein filed several misc.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
by reason of the impugned order dated 17 october 2003 the learned special judge allowed misc.
applications nos.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
it was directed in case all adult members of the family of late shri harshad metha who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats file an undertaking in this court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the court.
the custodian shall permit the members of family of late shri harshad mehta to occupy the flats during the time that the process of the sale of the flats goes on.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
8 and exh.
8 1 to misc.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the indian companies act the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable but the same can not be applied in case of individuals.
ii having regard to the fact that only three entitles out of eight were involved in the offences the liability of harshad mehta could not have been clubbed for the purpose of directing attachment and consequent sale of the properties which exclusively belong to them.
the liabilities of harshad mehta who was a sui generis could have been recovered from the properties held and possessed by him or from the companies floated by him but not from the individual entities at least two of whom being medical practitioners have their income from other sources.
v the appellants having preferred appeals against the income tax orders of assessment passed by the authority and the same having been set aside no liability to pay income tax by the appellants as of now being existing the residential properties could not have been sold.
a copy of the auditor s report having only been supplied during pendency of these appeals the learned special judge committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment relying on or on the basis thereof.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
central calcutta 1972 3 scc 252 1971 indlaw sc 841.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
v the assets and liabilities of each of the entities having been audited by the chartered accountants it is evident from the reports that in all cases liabilities exceed the assets.
hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late harshad mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith.
ixthe sale of commercial property had never been seriously contested by the appellants and in fact the contention of the appellants herein before the special court was that if the commercial properties were sold there would be no need to sell the residential properties.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
3 of section 3 contains a non obstante clause providing that on and from the date of notification under sub section 2 any property movable or immovable or both belonging to any person notified under that sub section shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification and such attached properties may be dealt with by the custodian in such manner as the special court may direct.
2 of section 4 however provides for a hearing as regard correctness or otherwise of the notification notifying a person in this behalf in the event an appropriate application therefor is filed within 30 days of the issuance of such notification.
analysis of the statutory.
the right of a person notified to file an application or to raise a defence that he is not liable in terms of the provisions of the act or in any event the properties attached should not be sold in discharge of the liabilities can be taken at the initial stage by filing an application in terms of sub s 2 of section 4 of the act.
in terms of the provisions of the act the special court had been conferred a very wide power.
constitutionality and or interpretation of the act came up for consideration before this court in harshad shantilal.
indlaw sc 732 v custodian and others 1998 5 scc 1 wherein the following questions were framed what is meant by revenues taxes cesses and rates due.
does the word due refer merely to the liability to pay such taxes etc or does it refer to a liability which has crystallised into a legally ascertained sum immediately payable.
do the taxes in cl.
a of section 112 refer only to taxes relating to a specific period or to all taxes due from the notified person.
at what point of time should the taxes have become due.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
as regard question No 1 it was held in the present case the words taxes due occur in a section dealing with distribution of property.
at this stage the taxes due have to be actually paid out.
in the context of section 112 therefore the taxes due refer to taxes as finally assessed.
such tax liability may be discharged either under the directions of the special court under section 112c or the taxing authority may recover the same from any subsequently acquired property of a notified person vide tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon 1996 indlaw sc 2403 or in any other manner from the notified person in accordance with law.
this is because the tax liability of a notified person having priority under section 112a is only tax liability pertaining to the statutory period.
the assessee who is before the special court is a person liable to be charged with an offence relating to transactions in securities.
he may not in these circumstances explain transactions before the income tax authorities in case his position is prejudicially affected in defending criminal charges.
1992 3 bom cr 716 1992 indlaw mum 6066 wherein it was held if the person approaches the special court and makes out for example a case that the property which is attached has no nexus of any sort with the illegal dealings in securities belonging to banks and financial institutions during the relevant period andor that there are no claims or liabilities which have to be satisfied by attachment and sale of such property in our view the special court would have the power to direct the custodian to release such property from attachment.
but the said observation was held to be not laying down a law by a 3 judge bench of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 holding i.
a notified party has the requisite locus to bring the fact to the notice of the special court that certain sum is owing and due to him from a third party whereupon a proceeding can be initiated for recovery thereof by the custodian and consequent application thereof in discharge of the liability of the notified person.
ii sub s.
3 of section 3 should be literally construed and so construed all properties belonging to the notified person shall be subject to attachment which may consequently be applied for discharge of his liabilities in terms of section 11 of the said act.
the ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the limitation act was further considered by a division bench of this court in fairgrowth investments ltd v custodian 2004 11 scc 472 2004 indlaw sc 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the limitation act will have no application in relation to an application falling under sub s 2 of section 4 of the act stating it is enough for the purpose of this appeal to hold that section 292 of the limitation act 1963 does not apply to proceedings under section 42 of the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities act 1992.
in tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon and another 1997 9 scc 123 1996 indlaw sc 2403 this court held in our view the terms of sub s 3 of section 3 are clear.
even to say that such interpretation would reduce a notified person to beggary would not be accurate because the alms that he received being his property would stand attached.
however by an order dated 14 july 2000 the said applications were permitted to be withdrawn with a permission to re file the same.
it is no doubt true that the law of limitation bars a remedy but not a right.
see bombay dyeing manufacturing co ltd v the state of bombay and others air 1958 sc 338 savitra khandu beradi v nagar agricultural sale and purchase co operative society ltd ahmednagar and others.
air 1957 bom 178 1957 indlaw mum 110 and hari raj singh v sanchalak panchayat.
air 1968 all 246 1967 indlaw all 16 but as observed hereinbefore.
although a remedy is barred a defence can be raised.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
for the said purpose it is not necessary that they should be accused of commission of an offence as such.
the contention of the appellants to the effect that their properties should have been attached only towards the liabilities incurred by the parties in respect of the transactions made during the statutory period can not be accepted as all the appellants being notified the attachment of the assets would be automatic.
l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra.
however the contention of the appellants that the properties held by them otherwise are sufficient to meet their liabilities was required to be gone into as in our considered opinion there can not be a any dispute that the appellants have such a right.
a corporate veil indisputably can be lifted on several grounds.
the principle of lifting the corporate veil however ipso facto would not apply to the individuals.
a transaction of benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 41 of the act as and when such a question is raised the same may have to be dealt with by the special court appropriately.
however nexus between several persons in dealing with the matter may be established by the custodian.
according to the appellants the custodian has under estimated the assets and exaggerated and overstated their liabilities.
ii liabilities have been shown in relation to unperformed contracts.
credits not given for relief obtained from income tax.
v thus taking into consideration the total of the decretal amount and the income tax liability it is clear that the total assets of harshad mehta group would be far below the liabilities.
before us mr desai had filed a chart for showing the same.
his death has also forced upon him bankruptcy.
even in this behalf it was necessary for the special judge to assign sufficient and cogent reasons.
if those individuals who had no connection with harshad mehta could not have been proceeded against for meeting the liabilities of harshad mehta jointly or severally a clear finding was required to be arrived at.
furthermore the question as regard liability of the parties should have been determined at the stage of section 9 a of the act.
he furthermore wanted to treat the liabilities of the notified entities also as their separate liabilities.
the act confers wide power upon the custodian and the learned special court and in that view of the matter having regard to the principles of natural justice the judgment and order of the learned judge special court should have furthermore been supported by sufficient and cogent reasons.
it is not in dispute that the tax liabilities of the appellants individually were assessed on the basis of best judgment assessment.
we may further notice that the learned special court relied upon a decision in custodian v union of india and ors.
co ltd 1971 indlaw sc 841 supra this court has held although that liability can not be enforced till the quantification is effected by assessment proceedings the liability for payment of tax is independent of the assessment.
it is significant that in the present case the liability had even been quantified and a demand had been created in the sum of rs 149776 by means of the notice dated november 21 1957 during the pendency of the assessment proceedings before the income tax officer and before the finalisation of the assessment.
but in this case the orders of assessment have been set aside.
if the orders of assessment have been set aside the liabilities of the appellants have to be worked out on the basis of the new orders of assessment.
so long such orders of assessment are not passed by the competent assessing authorities it can not be said that the appellants are liable to pay a huge amount by way of income tax dues on the basis of such orders of assessment which have since been set aside.
a chart has been annexed to the additional written submissions filed by mr desai which originated from a letter dated 9th december 2005 issued by the office of the commissioner of income tax showing the current status of the liabilities of the individual members of the harshad mehta group in the following terms i ashwin mehta rs 1396 crores ii.
deepika mehta rs 120 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
v hitesh mehta rs 73 crores vi.
2 7 crores.
1998 indlaw sc 732 supra.
furthermore the orders of the appellate authority have been passed during pendency of this appeal.
in board of control for cricket in india and another v netaji cricket club and others 2005 4 scc 741 2005 indlaw sc 1243.
by an order dated 30th january 2004 while admitting the appeals this court directed the learned counsel for the custodian brings on record the result of the bids and the order of the special court dated 17 december 2003 and 20 january 2004.
however the finalization shall be subject to the result of these appeals.
in any event ordinarily a bona fide purchaser for value in an action sale is treated differently than a decree holder purchasing such properties.
in the former event even if such a decree is set aside the interest of the bona fide purchaser in an auction sale is saved.
see zain ul abdin khan v muhammad asghar ali khan 15 ia 12 1887 indlaw pc 13.
the said decision has been affirmed by this court in gurjoginder singh v jaswant kaur.
smt and another 1994 2 scc 368 1994 indlaw sc 1613.
in janak raj v gurdial singh and anr.
1967 2 scr 77 1966 indlaw sc 120.
despite the fact that ordinarily a sale can be set aside only under rules 89 90 and 91 of order xxxi it was opined that the court is bound to confirm the sale and direct the grant of a certificate vesting the title in the purchaser as from the date of sale when no application in term of rule 92 was made or when such application was made and disallowed and in support thereof zain ul abdin khan 1887 indlaw pc 13 supra and various other decisions were referred to.
he is a party to the litigation and is very much aware of the vicissitudes of litigation and needs no protection.
No 202.
No 681 of 2004.
admittedly the flats have been sold subject to the result of these appeals.
the flats have been sold on the basis of the joint liabilities of the appellants together with harshad mehta and other companies as a group.
we direct the custodian to permit the appellants to have inspection of all the documents in his power or possession in the premises of the special court in the presence of an officer of the court.
a reply and or rejoinder thereto shall be filed within one week from the date of the receipt of the copy of the objection.
if in the meanwhile orders of assessment are passed by the income tax authorities the custodian shall be at liberty to bring the same to the notice of the learned special court which shall also be taken into consideration by the learned judge special court.
however the parties shall bear their own costs.
appeals allowed.
