Appeal No 513 of 1963.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated December 1961 of the Maharashtra Industrial Tribunal in Reference IT No 48 of 1961.
425 M C Setalvad N V Phadke J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and Ravinder Narain for the respondent No 1.
In July.
1947 the Private Limited Company was converted into a Public Limited Company.
It has Branches in Bombay Delhi and Via Madras.
Before the Tribunal the Company resisted the workmen s claim but submitted that it was agreeable to introduce for its Bombay employees provisions similar to those which had been introduced by agreement for the Calcutta employees retirement at the age of 58 subject to the employee passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
As has already been noticed there is no dispute that the age of compulsory retirement should not remain at 55.
According to this the pensionable age is 70 in two countries 67 in another two 65 in twenty four 60 in seventeen 55 in two and 50 in one.
As the Pay Commission Report pointed out This is particularly remarkable considering that the countries differ widely in demographic constitution levels of economic development and climatic and social condition and it indicates a virtual unanimity of competent opinion that balancing the various factors physiological economic and social that are relevant the normal working life should continue up to the age of 60 and may well go on up to 65 years.
At first sight therefore it appears to afford impressive 1  2  428 testimony against the workmen s case that the recent trend in Bombay has been to fix the age of retirement at 60.
But on a closer examination it is clear that this document is of little assistance for finding out the recent trend.
Exhibit U 6 also shows that in 25 of these concerns the clerical and subordinate staff were not organised into trade unions.
Having embarked an this enquiry the Tribunal appears to have taken considerable pains to perform this duty and it has ultimately persuaded itself to hold that no such trend is established in fact.
After careful consideration of all the materials placed on this record we have however found nothing to justify any doubt about the correctness of what was said on the earlier occasion.
429 Notice has also to be taken in this connection of the Report of the Norms Committee in which the following opinion was expressed After taking into consideration the views of the earlier Committees and Commissions including those of the Second Pay Commission the report of which has been released recently we feel that the retirement age for workmen in all industries should be fixed at 60.
Accordingly the norm for retirement age is fixed at 60.
Accordingly we allow the appeal with costs and in modi fication of the award made by the Tribunal direct that the age of retirement for the workmen of the respondent be fixed at 60.
Appeal allowed.
