5348.
1 As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
1 Desai award For workmen who entered service of the bank before 1st January 1959 i The workman s basic pay as on January 1 1959 shall not be reduced in any case.
b To the basic pay into which he is fitted under cl.
a the annual increments in the new scale as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of service in the same cadre as on 31st January 1950 up to a limit of 12 years  service hereafter one increment for every four years of service up to another 8 years service and after that one increment for every five years of service.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
b 4 A.
bTo the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause a annual increment or increment in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
d After adjustments are made in accordance with clauses ab and c supra two further annual increments.
d of cl.
We have already referred to the fact that para.
 The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present case was this.
ii of the Desai award the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1 1962.
ii and cl.
ii the method of fitment provided in cl.
1 903 d of cl.
a b and c of cl.
d and that it did not matter whether what was thus arrived at exceeded the maximum provided under cl.
ii has to be taken as on January 1 1959.
a b and c of cl.
i and cl.
a of cl.
i this cannot be less than the actual basic pay of the workman as on January 1 1959.
i the actual basic pay as on January 1 1959 is more than what point to point adjustment will give under cl.
ii is subject to cl.
b read with sub cl.
c of cl.
i and ii and the adjusted basic pay arrived at by giving the increments under sub cls.
b and c cannot exceed the adjusted basic pay as arrived at by point to point adjustment in the Sastry award as modified or the maximum of that scale or the actual basic pay as on 1st January 1959 as the case may be.
a is subject to cl.
i and the basic pay to be fixed on January 1 1959 has to be fixed by reading sub cls.
a of cl.
b read with sub cl.
c of cl.
i and ii.
d of cl.
d cannot be permitted in view of cl.
ii as interpreted by the appellant.
d of cl.
d is also subject to cls.
ii provides cannot be given.
d as was done by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in its modification of the Sastry award.
ii has to be worked out as on January 1 1959 the two increments provided by sub cl.
d of cl.
a b and c of el.
d of el.
d provides for a period after the date up to which el.
ii works.
a b and c of el.
i and ii to mean.
d must always be given.
b read with sub cl.
c may in some cases be not available where the actual pay as on January 1 1959 which will not be reduced under el.
a of el.
b and c because his actual salary coincided with the adjusted basic pay in the Sastry award scale as modified as on January 1 1959.
d for the years 1960 and 1961 and his salary therefore as on January 1 1962 under the Sastry award would come to Rs 119.
i his salary cannot be fixed below Rs 100 which he was actually getting.
a of cl.
