Civil Appeal No 1744 of 1968.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 14 6 1967 of the Mysore High Court in Writ Petition No 44065.
GM Shankariah  Ors.
1 where this Court had held upon a concession by the Attorney General that a list prepared under Section 115 of the  hereinafter referred to as the Act  was provisional.
Apparently the petitioner whose date of birth is given as 28th June 1915 has retired.
 It is apparent that the petitioner re spondent was claiming relief against the final Inter State seniority list although he was given due opportunity to object to the provi sional list.
As already observed above the petitioner had ample opportunity to do that.
As the petitioner in the High Court who is the respondent before us was unrepresented Mrs Shymala Pappu appearing on behalf of Union of India very Conscientiously took us through Union of India  Anr.
 1 from which learned Counsel thought the following observations could perhaps be cited on behalf of the petitioner respondent at p 202 it was argued by Mr Ashoke Sen that in regard to both these matters the respond ents have a right of representation and the final gradation list should have been pub lished after giving them further oppor tunity to make a representation.
But the extent and applicationof the doctrine of natural justice cannot be imprisoned within the straight jacket of a rigid formula.
As no such opportunity was furnished to the respondents with regard to these two matters 1 202.
830 we hold that the combined final gradation list dated April 6 1962 so far as category 6 is concerned is ultra vires and illegal and that part of the notification alone must be quashed by grant of a writ in the nature of certiorari.
All that is done is that certain principles are applied in the preparation of the list.
But once he has had that opportunity it cannot possibly be said that he should have a further opportunity against even a final seniority list.
A right to representation was recognised as existing at time when the list was still to be considered as not finalised presumably because some mistakes had crept in due to want of heating on two points.
1 where it was held by this Court at p 2106 1 AIR 1973 Sc 2102 at 2106.
 We find that as was the case of the petitioner in Prabhavalkar s case supra the petitioner respondent Dr RD Nanjiah and others similarly placed respondents before us have been unable to make out in their petitions any grounds for interference with the final list.
