N Criminal Appeal No 332 of 1977.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated 20 10 75 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 1 37975.
77 M C Bhandare A N Karkhanis Miss Malini Panduval and Mrs section Bhandare for the Appellant.
G L Sanghi and A K Verma for Respondent No 1.
M N Shroff for Respondent No 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by A Prefatory statement KRISHNA IYER J.
s 125.
PC Welfare laws must be so read as to be effective delivery systems of the salutary objects sought to be served by the Legislature and when the beneficiaries are the weaker sections like destitute women this spirit of article 153 of the Constitution must belight the meaning of the Section.
The Constitution is a pervasive omnipresence brooding over the meaning and transforming the values of every measure.
The Brief Facts The respondent husband married the appellant wife as a second wife way back in 1956 and a few years later had a son by her.
15 The initial warmth vanished and the jealousies of a triangular situation erupted marring mutual affection.
A suit relating to a flat in which the husband had housed the wife resulted in a consent decree which also settled the marital disputes.
 And another term in the settlement was that the appellant had by virtue of the compromise become the absolute owner of the flat and various deposits in respect of the said flat made with the cooperative housing society.
78 For some time there was flickering improvement in the relations between the quondum husband and the quondum wife and they lived together.
She proceeded on the footing that she was still a wife while the respondent rejected this status and asserted that she was a divorce and therefore ineligible for maintenance.
The Magistrate who tried the petition for maintenance held that the appellant was a subsisting wife and awarded monthly maintenance of Rs 300 for the son and Rs 400 for the mother for their subsistence taking due note of the fact that the cost of living in Bombay where the parties lived was high and that the respondent had provided residential accommodation to the appellant.
This order was challenged before the sessions Judge by the aggrieved husband who on a strange view of the law that the court under section 125 had no jurisdication to consider whether the applicant was a wife dismissed the petition in allowance of the appeal.
The High Court deigned to bestow little attention on the matter and summarily dismissed a revision petition.
On this foundation he urged that accepting the contention of the respondent that the appellant was a divorcee his client was still entitled to an allowance.
In the normal course an order for maintenance must follow the quantum having been determined by the learned Magistrate at the trial level.
His next plea was that there must be proof of neglect to maintain to attract s125 and his third contention was that there was a settlement by consent decree in 1962 whereby the mehar money had been paid and all claims adjusted and so no claim for maintenance could survive.
ii in any other case from the date of expiry of the period if any for which maintenance has been actually paid by the husband to the woman We must state however that there was no specific plea based upon the latter provision set up anywhere in the courts below or urged before us.
But if one were to locate a legal ground to raise The contention That the liability to pay maintenance had ceased on account of the payment of mehar it is section 1273 of the Code.
So we must deal with the dual sub heads of the third ground.
Art153 has compelling compassionate relevance in the context of section 125 and the benefit of doubt.
If any in statutory interpretation belongs to the ill used wife and the derelict divorcee.
Surely Parliament in keeping with article 153 and deliberate by design made a special provision to help women in distress cast away by divorce.
Protection against moral and material abandonment manifest in article 39 is part of social and economic justice specificated in article 38 fulfilment of which is fundamental to the governance of the country Art37.
From this coign of vantage we must view the printed text of the particular Code.
80 section 125 requires as a sine qua non for its application neglect by husband or father.
Moreover the husband has not examined himself to prove that he has been giving allowances to the divorced wife.
His case on the contrary is that she has forfeited her claim because of divorce and the consent decree.
Obviously he has no case of non neglect.
His plea is his right to ignore.
So the basic condition of neglect to maintain is satisfied.
In this generous jurisdiction a broader perception and appreciation of the facts and their bearing must govern the verdict not chopping little logic or tinkering with burden of proof.
Do divorcees have to 1 prove mutual consent to live apart Divorce painfully implies that the husband orders her out of the conjugal home.
If law has nexus with life this argument is still born.
No settlement of claims which does not have the special statutory right of the divorcee under section 125 can operate to negate that claim.
Nor can s127 rescue the respondent from his obligation.
Payment of mehar money as a customary discharge is within the cognisance of that provision.
But what was the amount of mehar  Rs 5000  interest from which could not keep the woman s body and soul together for a day even in that city where 40 of the population are reported to live on pavements unless she was ready to sell her body and give up her soul  The point must be clearly under stood that the scheme of the complex of provisions in Chapter IX has a social purpose.
Ill used wives and desparate divorcees shall not be driven to material and moral dereliction to seek sanctuary in the streets.
No construction which leads to frustration of the statutory project can secure validation if the court is to pay true homage to the Constitution.
If the first payment by way of mehar or ordained by custom has a reasonable relation to the object and is a capitalised substitute for the order under section 125 not mathematically but fairly then section 1273 b subserves the goal and relieves the obligor not pro tanto but wholly.
Law is dynamic and its meaning cannot he pedantic but purposeful.
PBR Appeal allowed.
