1025 26 of 1978.
They should better have not been so numbered alphabetically since the main clauses themselves are similarly numbered.
It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
ii X X X X X X iiiX X X X X X iv X X X X X X v where the annual letting 20 per centum value exceeds of the annual Rs 24000 letting value 2 The property tax levied under sub section 1 shall not be leviable in respect of the following properties namely 10 a building and lands owned by or vesting in i the Union Government ii the State Government iiithe Council.
 Similar provisions were inserted in sections 135 and 136 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
See Secretary of State for India in Council vs Hindustan Co operative Insurance Society Limited Craies on Statute Law 7th Edition pages 360 361 The principle broadly is that where a statute is incorporated by reference into a second statute the repeal of the first statute by a third does not affect the second see Clarke vs Bradlaugh.
see Secretary of State for India in Council vs Hindusthan Cooperative Insurance Society Ltd.
 In Heavy Engineering Mazdoor Union vs The State of Bihar  Ors the Heavy Engineering Corporation Limited was incorporated under the and its entire share capital was contributed by the Central Government.
3 Under section 5 of the Nationalisation Act the acquired properties were vested in a Government Company in order to carry out more conveniently the object of that Act and for that purpose the properties were freed from all encumbrances by section 6 of the Act.
4 The taxing power of the State legislature must be construed as limited in its scope so as not to come in conflict with the power and function of the Union to regulate and develop the mines as envisaged by the Nationalisation Act.
5 The impugned tax is manifestly an impediment in the discharge of the aforesaid function since it substantially increases the cost of the developmental activities.
