A K Sen and G L Sanghi Vineet Kumar and Devinder Gupta for the Appellant.
578 DD Thakur SN Kacker and RP Bhatt for respondent in 261181.
Altaf Ahmad and Irfan Ahmad for respondent No 2.
ALL interim orders passed by this Court shall stand vacated from the midnight between 15th and 16th November 1982.
 We now proceed to state in this judgment the reasons in support of our aforesaid conclusion 579 In July 1966 the appellant Ved Gupta decided to embark upon a venture to construct and operate an air conditioned Cinema in a plot of land which he proposed to take on lease in Gandhi Nagar Jammu in Collaboration with two osher persons namely Todar Mal and Kishan Kumar.
Accordingly on July 22 1966 Ved Gupta purporting to act on behalf of a partnership consisting of himself and the two persons aforementioned as a matter of fact no partnership had been constituted at all by that date applied to the District Magistrate Jammu under section 3 of the Jammu and Kashmir Cinematograph Act 1989 1933 AD herein after referred to as the Act for permission to construct a modern Cinema Hall at the proposed site a detailed description of which was furnished in the plan annexed to the application.
 The construction of the Cinema Theatre appears to have been completed by the middle of June 1969.
Annexure C is a copy of the said application and it shows that it was filed by Ved Gupta in his personal capacity without any mention whatever therein of the partnership.
Annexure D is a copy of the said licence and it is expressly stated therein that the said licence has been granted to Shri Ved Gupta and that it shall remain in force until March 31 1970 provided that Shri Ved Gupta or any person to whom with the consent of the licensing authority the licence is transferred continues to own or manage the cinematographs used ill the said Apsara Theatre.
A Schedule of conditions imposing various duties and obligations on the licensee is also appended to the said licence.
 Soon thereafter on December 3 1975 Todar Mall who had retired from the firm and Krishan Kumar who continued to be a partner jointly issued a notice to the District Magistrate Jammu claiming that their names should also be included in the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Apsara Theatre.
A copy 581 of the said letter was sent by Krishan Kumar to Ved Gupta also.
After considering the arguments advanced before him by the counsel appearing for the contending parties the District Magistrate passed a detailed order dated December 29 1977 rejecting the request of Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar and declaring Shri Ved Gupta to be the sole licensee authorized to run the Apsara Theatre.
Annexure I Before the said order was passed by the District Magistrate an elaborate hearing appears to have been given by him to Krishan Kumar and Ved Gupta represented by their Advocates.
Acting on the aforesaid material brought to his notice the District Magistrate passed the order Annexure J dated September 26 1980 directing that exhibition of cinematographic films in Apsara Theatre will remain suspended until further orders.
16980 has intimated that there was exhibition of films on 25th September 1980 in Apsara Theatre by persons other than the licensee And whereas under the provisions of the Cinematograph Act read with rules none other than licensee is permitted to exhibit films during the currency of the licence without permission of the licensing authority Now therefore I A Sahasranaman District Magistrate Jammu hereby order that exhibition of films in Apsara Theatre will remain suspended till further orders.
2 If the judges composing the bench are equally divided on any point they shall state the point upon which they differ and the case shall then be heard upon that point by one or more of the other Judges designated for the purpose by the Chief Justice and such point shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority if any of the judges who have heard the case including those who first heard it.
3 If there is no such majority then the decision shall be in accordance with the decision of the senior Judge except in the case of an appeal from a decree where such decree shall be confirmed 586 In the opinion of the Division Bench the present case was governed by sub rule 3 of Rule 23 and consequently the decision in the case had to be in accordance with the opinion of the senior Judge.
Accordingly the Division Bench passed orders in CMP No 454 of 1981 that the Letters Patent Appeal will stand allowed in conformity with the view taken by the Acting Chief Justice in his judgment.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
Although we entertain very serious doubts about the correctness of the view taken by the Division Bench of the High Court regarding the applicability of Rule 23 3 to the instant case we do not feel called upon to examine the said question in depth or to pronounce upon it in this case in view of the conclusion arrived at by us on the merits of the case that the conclusions recorded by the Acting Chief Justice on the points that arose for decision in the Letters Patent Appeal cannot be legally sustained and that there was no justification for interference by the Division Bench with the judgment of the learned Single Judge dismissing the writ petition.
Admittedly the licence in respect of the Apsara Theatre was granted by the District Magistrate in the sole name of Ved Gupta and in all the relevant columns of the document of licence Ved Gupta has been shown as the licensee and there is no mention at all of the firm or its partners.
An application filed by Shri Krishan Kumar for a declaration that the licence was the property of the firm and for inclusion of his name and that of Todar Mal in the said licence as joint licensees was rejected by the District Magistrate by his order dated December 29 1977.
 On a careful reading of this Section it will be seen that far from supporting the view taken by the learned Acting Chief Justice this provision goes to show that the holder of a licence may be a person different from the owner of the cinematograph or a partner of the cinematography.
A mere reading of the District Magistrate s order is sufficient to show that what was done thereudder was not to suspend or revoke even temporarily the licence granted in respect of the Theatre.
Any such operation by them would have been in clear and gross contravention of the law embodied if the relevant provisions of the Act and the Rules.
HLC Appeal allowed.
