 It was stated that the Finance and Tourism Department had agreed to the proposal to lease the properties to the ITDC and the Taj Group respectively.
The Commit tee was informed that now adays migratory birds were coming less in number though previ ously more foreign birds used to come here and in the opinion of the Managing Committee the main reason for this was due to air and sound pollution.
It was suggested that the Government may consider abandoning the proposal to set up a hotel on the Eastern side of the Zoo.
 The Minister for Metropolitan Development submitted a note to the Chief Minister on the resolution of the Managing Committee of the Zoo.
 On June 29 1981 the Director of the Zoo wrote to the Secretary of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department stating his objections to the Proposal to lease the land for construction of a hotel.
 Presumably as a consequence of the letter from the Director of the Zoo there was a note by the Secretary Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department suggest ing the postponement of the implementation of the Cabinet decision till the necessary facilities then available at Begumbari land were shifted to other land of the same extent within a reasonable distance from the Zoological Garden as 249 these facilities were originally linked with the Zoo.
 It is to be noted here that though the stipulation was that the cost of new construction was to be initially met by Taj Group of Hotels and later to be adjusted against the rent payable by Taj Group the Taj Group later agreed to waive such reimbursement.
 The Act was made applicable to the public parks and gardens mentioned in the schedule.
 Section 4 enables the Government to make rules for the management and preservation of any park and for regulating the use thereof by the public.
 I wish to delineate the parameters of public interest litigation concisely against the background of the facts of this case so that this salutory type of litigation does not lose its credibility.
