he made representation to the additional chief engineer for cancelling his transfer order on the ground that his mother aged 70 years was ailing and it would cause great inconvenience to him if he was required to join at ukai.
the learned single judge granted a declaration in respondent s favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back wages.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants but it allowed the respondent s appeal.
the division bench upheld the order of the learned single judge holding the order of discharge illegal and void but it set aside the order of the learned single judge refusing to grant consequential relief instead it directed the appellants to reinstate the respondent and to treat him in service without any break in service and to grant him benefits of increments seniority and promotion to which he may be entitled under the rules.
the bench however did not grant full back wages to the respondent instead it directed the board to pay him 50 per cent of back wages.
aggrieved the appellant has preferred the instant appeal after obtaining special leave of this court.
sh b k mehta advocate appearing for the appellants and sh.
after hearing learned counsel for the parties we were satisfied that the learned single judge as well as the division bench both had committed error in allowing the writ petition and granting relief to the respondent.
the appellants were directed by means of interim order of this court to continue to pay salary to the respondent which was being paid to him regularly.
the hearing was adjourned to enable sh.
the appeal came up for hearing before us on 16 2 1988 when another counsel appeared to argue the appeal on behalf of the respondent on merits.
however in the interest of justice we permitted the respondent to file written submissions if any in support of his case.
since this was unusual uncalled for and unjustified request we ignored the same and reserved the order.
if the order of transfer is not stayed modified or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
if he fails to proceed on transfer in compliance to the transfer order he would expose himself to disciplinary action under the relevant rules as has happened in the instant case.
in fact during the tenure of his service in the board the respondent had been transferred from one place to another place several times.
in march1974 he was transferred from surat to ukai.
the distance between the two places as was stated before us during the hearing of the case is less than 50 kms.
he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974.
but he did not join at ukai till the impugned order of discharge was issued on may 271974 the.
if even thereafter he fails to join duty his services are liable to be terminated by an order of discharge.
it is noteworthy that the validity of regulation 113 was not challenged before the high court and the parties proceeded on the assumption that regulation 113 was valid and applicable to the respondent s service.
march 301974 to may 271974.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
on perusal of the material on record we are of the opinion that the view taken by the high court is not sustainable as there is sufficient material on record which shows that warning had been issued to the respondent before the order of discharge was issued.
in determining the question whether any warning was given to the respondent it is necessary to refer to the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the appellants and the respondent.
on march 291974 the superintending engineer of the board issued the order transferring the respondent from surat to ukai on 30 3 1974 the respondent was relieved from surat and directed to join his duty at ukai but the respondent did not join his duty at the new place of posting.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
dated 18th april1974.
sub transfer from surat to ukai.
superintending engineer geb utran.
by that letter respondent stated that he was waiting for the decision of his representation made for reconsideration of his transfer from surat to ukai and therefore the question of his remaining on unauthorised leave was misconceived.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
in fact the superintending engineer had by his letter dated 18th april1974 clearly reminded the respondent that his unauthorised absence was in breach of service regulation no 113 and called upon to show cause why action should not be taken against him but in spite of these letters the respondent failed to join his duties.
the division bench of the high court has held that since no warning was issued to the respondent action taken under service regulation no 113 was not in accordance with law.
a warning need not be in any particular form.
the division bench further held that since the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there was no material to show that any warning had been issued to the respondent before he was discharged from service.
firstly even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there is no dispute that the superintending engineer s letter dated 18th april1974 had been served on him.
but even otherwise the division bench committed error in holding that the board had raised the question of service of the letter dated 24 4 1974 for the first time before the division bench in the letters patent appeal.
in his rejoinder affidavit the respondent denied the aforesaid allegations and asserted that the letter was not tendered to him and he never refused to accept the registered cover and the postal endorsement was wrong and incorrect.
apart from denying the postal endorsement the respondent placed no material before the court in support of his pleading.
in this view we are of the opinion that the division bench was totally wrong in holding that no opportunity was afforded to the respondent to meet the case set up by the board that the letter dated 24 4 1974 was served on the respondent.
consequently the service was complete and the view taken by the high court is incorrect.
no 113 the learned single judge as well as the division bench both erred in law in setting aside the order of discharge.
appeal allowed.
