in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted.
having regard to the importance of the questions involved we consider it appropriate to issue notice to the attorney general of india as well as the advocates general for the states.
it would therefore not be feasible to take up the hearing of these matters before the court closes for the long vacation.
for admission in the last academic session 1993 94an interim order in the following terms was made by a bench comprising honourable the chief justice and one of us justice b p jeevan reddy on may 141993 in writ petition nos 350 and 355 of 1993.
however the selection shall be made strictly on the basis of merit among the candidates seeking admission to the institutions.
such merit shall be determined oh the basis of the academic performance at the qualifying examination or on the basis of any objective test that the institution might itself apply to determine such relative and competing merits or on the basis of performance of the results of the selection tests that the state government may itself hold for selecting candidates for admission to technical colleges in the state.
it is optional for the petitioners to adopt any one of these three modes and apply it uniformally.
it is made clear that this order is made on the assumption that the petitioners are minority institutions.
the 50 seats to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test as well as the remaining 50 seats to be filled in accordance with cl of the said order shall be equally distributed between free seats and payment seats.
such statements shall contain as full a particulars as possible.
the authorities to which the statements are submitted shall verify the correctness of the statements and if they find any irregularity they shall call upon the college concerned to rectify the same.
any such irregularity if proved may entail serious consequences.
separate directions were however given in respect of institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 and 482 of 1993 with regard to writ petition no 284 of 1993 it was observed that in the said writ petition the petitioner has claimed that no capitation fee is charged from any student and the fee charged is not more than in some cases less than.
it was also observed that this fact was not disputed by the learned advocate general for the state of karnataka.
in the order dated august 181993the following directions were given in respect of the institutions covered by the aforesaid writ petitions nos 284 of 1993 and 482 of 19932 having regard to the above circumstances we permit the petitioners.
in the above two writ petitions to admit students to their colleges on the basis of entrance test conducted by them and on the same basis on which admissions were made by them in the said colleges in the previous academic year.
in case of irregularity any of the said authorities shall be entitled to call upon the petitioner to rectify the said irregularity.
it shall also be open to the competent authority university and the government of karnataka tamil nadu to bring any such irregularity to the notice of this court by way of an interlocutory application for appropriate orders in that behalf.
dealing with writ petition no 598 of 1993the court after noticing that an agreement was entered into between the institution and the government of kerala according to which while 85 of the seats were to be filled by the government and the remaining 15 of the seats were left for the management to fill up in its discretion observed that since the basic principle in unni krishnan as well as the order dated august 181993 is that merit shall be the guiding principle in the matter of admission a plea for discretionary quota could not be countenanced and it was directed that the said writ petition shall also be governed by the order dated may 141993as modified by addition.
indlaw sc 2264 unnikrishnan j p v.
it was further made clear that this was a special provision made only for that year.
in the institutions referred to in writ petition no 598 of 1993 and similar minority educational institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by an agreement with the government of kerala the admissions shall be made in accordance with the terms of those agreements.
in the absence of such list they can themselves devise the method for such selection.
in rest of the minority educational institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 indicated in paragraph 5 of the order dated august 1819932admission shall be made in accordance with the directions contained in the order dated may 141993 in writ petitions nos 350 and 355 of 1993 as modified by order dated august 1819932but the directions would not apply to the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 1819932 in this context we would like to impress upon the managements of the institutions concerned that while assessing the merit of a candidate for admission the objective should be to promote the excellence of the institution as a vehicle of general secular education.
insofar as non resident indians and foreign students are concerned the permissible limit would be only 5 of the total intake for a given year as per the direction contained in paragraph 6 of the order dated may 141993 as modified by order dated august 1819932 the admission against these seats shall be made on the basis of merit.
conservators forest working in the forest department.
in k c joshi case it was concluded that the promotees were appointed on ad hoc basis as a stop gap arrangement in 7ubstantive posts.
conservators forest and the seniority of direct recruits shall accordingly be fixed.
the governor was directed to make appointment by promotion to substantive vacancies to the post of asstt.
conservators forest shall be counted from the respective dates of appointment to the substantive posts in their quota under rule 6 of the rules.
all the employees are entitled to all consequential benefits.
later when raj narayan singh and others filed writ petition civil no 641 of 1991this court on june 61991 directed to convert the writ petition as a contempt case for non implementation of the direction issued in k c joshi case which was numbered as contempt petition no 164 of 1971 when.
it came up for hearing on august.
231991this court observed thus we are told by the counsel for the state of u p that for the purpose of working out the seniority draft list has been prepared and was in circulation inviting objections.
in these contempt petitions the promotees as well as some of the subsequent direct recruits complain against fixation of their inter se seniority by the state government.
shri r k garg for the promotees contended that as on august 311982 selection of the promotees on regular basis to fill up the posts of asstt.
conservator forest for the years 1973 74 to 1979 80 had taken place by a regularly constituted selection committee which selected 140 candidates for appointment.
it is also contended that the promotees are entitled in terms of the judgment in k c joshi case for appointment by promotion to substantive vacancies within their quota in the respective years and that therefore their seniority should be counted from the years in which they started discharging their duties as asstt.
conservators forest as they were initially appointed to the substantive vacancies.
as per the ratio the promotees are entitled to 33 13per cent quota.
as on march 11198532 more posts were created and the total posts available were 218 on.
december 1198640 more posts were created.
258 on march 11985the quota was increased by 50 per cent.
but that was not done.
since the seniority as per the direction of this court was made only to substantive posts some of the direct recruits became temporary direct recruits and the seniority was determined accordingly.
in the light of the background scenario we can not strictly take it to be a case of contempt but in working out the directions issued by this court the state government committed a mistake in law.
from the averments it would appear that 100 promotee asstt.
conservators forest are awaiting appointment to substantive vacancies.
similarly as on january 11975the ratio was increased to 33 13 per cent namely66 23 per cent to the direct recruits and 33 13 per cent to the promotees.
indisputably a decision was taken on march 11975 to increase the quota to 50 per cent but no amendment to the statutory rules to give effect to it was made.
it is a policy matter.
similar exercise for each year in which the substantive vacancies had arisen should be done.
after exhausting the exercise the remaining candidates awaiting appointment would continue to be temporary until they get due placement or fixation of their seniority.
petition disposed of.
