the two learned judges constituting the division bench differed in their opinion.
kumari s a young child aged about 5 years was last seen at about 4 p m on 18th march 1991 and thereafter she did not return home.
at about 7 a m on 19th march 1991 kishori lal pw4 informed bd pw2 the unfortunate father of s that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
bd rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
a noose was also found around her neck.
at 7 25 a m on 19 3 1991 first information report was lodged by bd at police station kotputli.
offence was registered under sections 302 and 376 ipc.
the inves tigation commenced.
the dead body was sent for post mortem examination which was performed at 9 30 a m on the same day by a medical board of three doctors.
it was found that the victim was brutally ravished and thereafter killed.
according to the medical opinion the probable cause of death of s was shock produced due to vaginal trauma and rupture of post fornix along with asphyxia due to ligature around the neck.
all injuries found on the person of the victim could be around 6 of 24 hours old prior to the time of post mortem examina tion.
the vaginal injuries clotted blood and injuries to post fornix were indica tive of rape having been committed on the victim.
the clothes were removed from the dead body and seized.
slides of vaginal swab were prepared for cyto chemical analysis for blood and seminal stains.
the forensic science laboratory confirmed presence of group b blood on the clothes of deceased.
on 4 4 1991 he was medically examined.
there was no injury on his private parts or on any other part of body.
the clothes so recovered were sent to forensic science laboratory.
according to report exbt.
human semen was detected on underwear.
p30 of forensic science laboratory human blood of group b was detected on the underwear.
the accused was challaned and charge sheeted for the offences as already stated hereinabove.
the prosecution examined 21 witnesses in all.
it is not necessary here to extensively deal with the evidence adduced by the prosecution.
the prosecution case depends on circumstantial evidence.
she stated that accompanied by phukla another young girl a cousin of hers and s the deceased she had gone to purchase balloon from the shop of goma.
it is this testimony which has been relied upon by the trial court as also by the high court as the evidence of last seen together.
the witness is a child witness of very tender age and examined in the court almost a year after the date of the incident.
there is nothing in her statement to suggest that what she is narrating in the court is the story of a day soon before the date and time of the incident or the date on which dead body of s was found.
goma to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon has not been examined.
there is something mysterious about the discovery of shalu as a witness to the incident.
s has died.
the third girl who was with s and shalu has not been examined either in the court or during investigation.
harish chand sharma the investigating officer was specifically asked how the name of this witness came to his knowledge during investigation.
the fact remains that the testimony of shalu pw 7 aged 4 years even if taken at its face value does not constitute such a circumstance as to draw an incriminating inference against the accused and connect him with the crime.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
he and santosh.
pw9 had gone to see a movie in a cinema hall where the accused was employed as a gate keeper.
thereafter the wit nesses went to see movie in the cinema hall.
during cross examination kalu ram stated that the accused was his neighbour previously known to him.
it appears that to begin with the death of s was a blind murder and the police was clue less about the likely offender.
he did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
however the accused was not detained and was sent back.
placed in such situation if a villager unaware of the law happens to ask a person who he feels knows the things better than what he himself does as to what would be the period of incarceration to be suffered by any person for such an offence the impulse for inquiry may be outcome of a feeling of nervousness or mere inquisitiveness such an enquiry is not necessarily suggestive of the working of a criminal mind.
there is not investigation directed towards finding out and no evidence worth its name collected and adduced in the court to show that the underwear and baniyan were of the accused.
insofar as baniyan is concerned it has no stains of any type on it and therefore its discovery and seizure is meaningless and irrelevant.
so far as the underwear is concerned the investigation suffers from another infirmity also.
blood sam ple of the accused was not collected and therefore not grouped.
no evidence is available to show as to what was the blood group of the accused and therefore the possibility of blood on the underwear being of the accused himself can not be and is not ruled out.
sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
in diameter on the appellant s pant and of a dried stain of semen on his under pant were circumstances for too feeble to establish that the appellant raped or murdered the victim.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
false plea of alibi.
the high court has gone completely amiss in holding that a plea of alibi was taken by the accused and that was found to be false.
p c and nowhere suggested during cross examination of prosecution witnesses that at the time of the incident he was at a place wherefrom he could not have reached the place of the offence on the date and at the time of its commission.
the accused did not avail the opportunity and stood short by simply stating that the statement of cinema owner was not correct.
literal meaning of alibi is elsewhere.
see law lexicon p ramnath iyer second edition p 87.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
p21 at behror which is a place situated at a distance of about 30 35 kms.
from village kotputli where the incident had taken place.
the memo of arrest does not state the arrest of accused having been made at behror.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
at least this fact should have been mentioned in the memo of arrest even if the same was prepared at village kotputli.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit s case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
before parting with the case we would like to place on record an observation of ours touching an aspect of the case.
there are clueless crimes committed.
the evidence of investigating officer given in the court should have a rhythm explaining step by step how the investigation proceeded leading to detection of the offender and collection of evidence against him.
the appeals are allowed.
appeals allowed.
