background facts.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
rs 63 per day for the degree holders and rs 52 50 per day for the diploma holders.
on or about 17 3 1997 however they began receiving a salary of rs 1500 per month.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
if no then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer.
proceedings before the tribunal.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award the respondent authority herein filed a writ petition before the madhya pradesh high court indore bench which was marked as writ petition no 1188 of 1997.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
high court judgment.
the oda project is said to have been completed and only the maintenance thereof was to be looked after by the indore municipal corporation.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
the learned counsel would urge that a seniority list was also drawn up and an employment code was assigned to each one of the appellants from which fact the nature of their employment should be judged.
the learned counsel would submit that the sufficient materials were brought on records to show that vacancies were available and as the appellants worked for a period of more than six months they became permanent employees in terms of the act.
it was further contended that as the respondents despite direction to produce documents including the offers for appointment did not produce the same an adverse inference should have been drawn against them by the high court.
as regard the claim of equal pay for equal work the learned counsel would urge that the high court has failed to consider the same in its true perspective.
mr v r reddy learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would contend that indisputably the appellants were engaged by the respondent authority but such appointments were made for the purpose of the project financed by oda.
our attention was also drawn to the application dated 22 10 1991 filed by one o p mandloi before the chairman of the indore development authority disclosing his educational qualifications and enclosing therewith the mark sheets and degrees obtained by him in civil engineering and also secondary school examination certificate to show his date of birth.
sd c e o 23 10 91.
drawing our attention also to the pleadings as also the reliefs claimed for by the appellants before the labour court the learned counsel would contend that no contention was raised therein by the appellants as regard their entitlement of permanency in terms of the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
provisions section 22 of the 1961 act.
2 of the standard standing order reads as under 2.
classification of employees.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
probationers iv badlies v apprentices and vi temporary.
i above.
12 of the constitution of india.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
section 76b provides for constitution of development authorities service.
it is also not in dispute that the state government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the adhiniyam has made rules known as m p development authority services officers and servants recruitment rules 1987.
it is nobody s case were sanctioned ones.
the answer thereto must be rendered in negative.
regularisation can not be claimed as a matter of right.
the constitutional scheme which the country has adopted does not contemplate any backdoor appointment.
a daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.
see state of u p others vs.
bal kishan soni and others 1997 5 scc 86 1997 indlaw sc 928.
jt 2004 6 sc 110 2004 indlaw sc 606 a three judge bench of this court of which we were members upon taking into consideration a large number of decisions held although we do not intend to express any opinion as to whether the cooperative society is a state within the meaning of article but it is beyond any cavil of doubt that the writ petition will be maintainable when the action of the cooperative society is violative of mandatory statutory provisions.
such an order can not be upheld also on the ground that the employees allegedly served the cooperative societies for a long time.
jt 2004 8 sc 531 2004 indlaw sc 729 a division bench of this court opined no person illegally appointed or appointed without following the procedure prescribed under the law is entitled to claim that he should be continued in service.
in this situation we see no reason to interfere with the impugned order.
case law relied upon by the appellant.
in dr a k jain and others etc.
scc 497.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
in niadar and another vs delhi administration and another 1992 4 scc 112 1988 indlaw sc 244 again no law has been laid down.
it appears that there existed a scheme for regularization and some directions were issued in terms thereof.
application of the act and the rules.
no notification has been brought to our notice that the standard standing orders had been made applicable to the appellants.
it is furthermore not in dispute that adhiniyam came into force in 1973.
the 1961 act provides for classification of employees in five categories.
it is accepted that no appointment letter was issued in favour of the appellants.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
the 1973 act or the rules framed there under do not provide for appointments on ad hoc basis or on daily wages.
the 1961 act itself shows that the employees are to be classified in six categories namely permanent permanent seasonal probationers badlies apprentices and temporary.
the appellants have not produced any such ticket.
constitution being the suprema lax shall prevail over all other statutes.
the matter relating to recruitment is governed by the 1973 act and the 1987 rules.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
for the purpose of regularization which would confer on the concerned employee a permanent status there must exist a post.
no case was made out by the appellants herein in their statements of claim that they became permanent employees in terms thereof.
a demand which was not raised at the time of raising the dispute could not have been gone into by the labour court being not the subject matter thereof.
the labour court in absence of any pleadings or any proof as regard application of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had proceeded on the basis that they would become permanent employees in terms of order 2ii and 2vi of the annexure appended thereto.
the nature of their employment continues save and except a case where a statute interdicts which in turn would be subject to the constitutional limitations.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
project work.
as noticed hereinbefore the high court s observation remained unchallenged that the project was to be financed by oda.
such a relief would have been beyond the scope and purport of the reference made to the labour court by the state government.
furthermore the indore municipal corporation was not a party and thus no employee could be thrust upon it without its consent.
see also karnataka state coop.
apex bank ltd vs.
amar singh and others 2003 5 scc 388 2003 indlaw sc 331.
however it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
the high court in our opinion was right in arriving at the conclusion that the appellants were not entitled to be regularized in service.
adverse inference.
one of such documents was offers of appointment.
in absence of any pleadings the appellants could not have called for any document to show that the provisions of the 1961 act and 1963 rules would apply.
the labour court did not draw any adverse inference.
such a plea was not even raised before the high court.
2004 air scw 5476.
the application calling for the production of the documents was for the years 1987 to 1992.
as stated above between the period 1987 to 1990 as a matter of fact till end of the year 1990 the respondents have not been able to establish the case of continuous work for 240 days.
considering these facts in our view drawing of an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the years 1991 92 is wholly erroneous on the part of the industrial court and the high court.
the above burden having not been discharged and the labour court having held so in our opinion the industrial court and the high court erred in basing an order of re instatement solely on an adverse inference drawn erroneously.
in any event in this case we have proceeded on the basis that the assertions of the appellants as regard nature of their employment their continuance in the job for a long time are correct and as such the question as to whether any adverse inference should be drawn for alleged production of documents called for would take a back seat.
equal pay for equal work.
no post was sanctioned by the state government.
for the purpose of invoking the said doctrine the nature of the work and responsibility attached to the post are some of the factors which were bound to be taken into consideration.
furthermore when their services had not been regularized and they had continued on a consolidated pay on ad hoc basis having not undergone the process of regular appointments no direction to give regular pay scale could have been issued by the labour court.
appeals dismissed.
