it appears that pending finalization of a new charter party for the period commencing 1st september1998certain meetings took place between the oil companies and the ship owners including the respondent herein.
on 12th october1998the respondent informed the ioc that if all its nine vessels mentioned in the letter are used at a fair and reasonable rate for one year from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 for which the tender had been floated they were agreeable to apply the new agreed rates for use of the said nine vessels from 1st july1998 on 31st october1998.
the ioc faxed to the respondent relevant portion of the message received by them from oil co ordination committee extending the period of usage of the existing coastal tanker fleet for the month of october1998at 80 charter hire rates prevailing till 30th june1998on provisional basis subject to adjustment of provisional charter hire with retrospective date from 1st september1998 against the revised charter hire to be finalised by the oil industry in response to the tender floated by ioc on 1st september1998 respondent s consent was asked for.
it was clearly stated that since the tender was not finalized the owners will be guided by the existing terms and conditions.
some other objections not relevant at this stage were also indicated.
as such all said and done oil co ordination committee s proposal was not accepted.
nevertheless some suggestions to resolve the controversy were given.
in the alternative it was suggested by the respondent that the charter period be extended by six months on the existing terms and conditions at a mutually discussed time charter rate.
finally it was suggested that we therefore suggest that we sign an agreement with you for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter is finally decided by you under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on an ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
kindly confirm in order to draw up a suitable agreement accordingly.
emphasis supplied.
the respondent was asked to convey their acceptance to the said suggestion.
it appears that the respondent did not respond to the said suggestion by the appellant but all the same its vessel continued to be on charter with the appellant.
charter hire rate worked out by the committee for vessel jag praja for the period from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 was communicated to the respondent.
in response the respondent while expressing their disappointment with the rate but purportedly in view of their long business relations with the appellant conveyed their acceptance of the proposed rate in respect of each of the vessels named in separate letters all dated 1st.
may2000with the expectation that their outstanding balance of the hire shall be paid to them at the earliest.
however the respondent did not convey their acceptance of the charter hire rates for two vessels viz.
jag praja and jag prayog.
claims and counter claims were filed before the arbitral tribunal.
however arguments were heard only on the following three issues.
issue no 1 whether the hon ble arbitral tribunal has no jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the dispute between the claimant and the respondent for the period september1998 to august1999.
in respect of the vessel jag praja for the reasons stated in para 1 of the written statement.
issue no 2 whether there is any common practice that if the vessel is not re delivered at the end of the period mentioned in the time charter the vessel would be governed by the charter party under which originally it was chartered.
may2003 the arbitral tribunal came to the conclusion that the appellant having invoked the arbitration clause contained in charter party agreement dated 6th may1997which was valid upto 31st august1998.
august1998they had no jurisdiction to decide the reference.
the learned tribunal found issue no 2 in the negative and issue no 5 in the affirmative.
by the impugned order the learned single judge has set aside the said award inter alia holding that arbitral tribunal has the jurisdiction to adjudicate the disputes between the parties as the vessel continued to be hired by the appellant for the period subsequent to 31st august1998 on the same terms and conditions as were contained in the charter party dated 6th may1997only subject to the revision or modification of the rate of hire to be determined by the oil co ordination committee.
admittedly after 31st august1998re delivery of vessel did not take place and therefore in terms of clause 23the vessel continued to be hired on the same terms and conditions except the term as to the hire charges on which there was disagreement between the parties.
it was thus held that the charter party dated 6th may1997 did not come to an end by efflux of time and it was extended by the parties on the same terms and conditions except the rate of hire.
shyam divan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand submitted that notwithstanding the fact that the period fixed originally under the charter party or under the addendum dated 29th june1998 had come to an end the subsequent conduct of the parties goes to show that charter of the vessel by the appellant beyond 31st august1998 continued to be governed by the terms and conditions stipulated in charter party dated 6th may1997 and therefore an arbitration agreement did exist between the parties.
learned counsel argued that even otherwise till the vessel was not re delivered in terms of cls 4 and 23 of charter party dated 6th may1997the said agreement could not come to an end.
it was pointed out that all the obligations of the owners as well as of the charterers during the period the vessel was in use continued to be discharged under the charter party dated 6th may1997 even after the expiry of the period of the charter party.
as noted above after the extended period of charter party dated 6th may1997 had come to an end on 31st august1998.
october1998the respondent had informed the appellant that they were agreeable to apply new rates for use of the vessel from 1st july1998 provided all the nine vessels are used.
it was suggested that an agreement may be signed between them for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter was finally decided by the appellant under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
as noted hereinabove there was no response by the appellant to respondent s letter dated 4th january1999 though it appears that vide their letter of even date the appellant did suggest to the respondent that as a token of formal agreement the said letter may be jointly signed by the charterers and the vessel owners.
nevertheless the appellant continued to use the vessel on hire with them under the time charter dated 6th may1997 the conduct of the parties as evidenced in the said correspondence and in particular appellant s silence on respondent s letters dated 5th november1998 and 4th.
january1999coupled with the fact that they continued to use the vessel manifestly goes to show that except for the charter rate there was no other dispute between the parties.
in this context it would be appropriate to refer to cls 4 and 23 of the charter party dated 6th may1997 these are in the following terms 4 delivery redelivery 4 1.
it is clear from the pleadings and issue no 2framed by the arbitral tribunal that it was respondent s consistent stand that since the hired vessel had not been re delivered at the end of the time charter party the vessel would be governed by the terms and conditions in the charter party dated 6th may1997.
however the arbitral tribunal answered the said issue against the respondent.
the learned arbitral tribunal overlooked this aspect of the matter.
accordingly we constitute an arbitral tribunal consisting of justice m jagannadha rao presiding arbitratorjustice d p wadhwa and justice s n variava former judges of this court to adjudicate upon the claim counter claim by the parties subject to their consent and such terms and conditions as they may deem fit and proper.
appeal dismissed.
