leave granted.
one of the stipulations contained therein reads as under that the party of the second part has satisfied the party of the first part of having used the mark field marshal in respect of centrifugal pumps and valves since 1973.
indisputably appellant filed an application in form tm 24 on 17 6 1986 the assistant registrar trade marks passed an order on 10 11 1986 certifying that the trade mark field marshal brand word per se is registered under no 228867 in part a of the register as of the date 13th.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
suraj bhan belanganj agra.
that pursuant to a request on form tm 23 dated 17th june1986 and order thereon dated 24th october1986.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
may1986 and may be renewed at the expiration of that period and of each succeeding period of a seven years.
in the said c o no 9 of 1986 filed by the first respondent against m s jain industries despite service of notice nobody appeared on behalf of the defendant 16 1 1987 was the date fixed in the said suit.
appellant s counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
in view of that statement a submission was made on behalf of the first respondent that it may be permitted to withdraw the petition with liberty to file a fresh petition on the same cause of action.
mr singh has filed a reply in this petition bringing out that presently he is the registered owner of the trademark which is sought to be cancelled in this petition.
in view of this situation learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action after impleading m s thakural mechanical works etc.
let the statement of learned counsel for the petitioner be recorded.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
in view of the submissions of m s thakural mechanical works i may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
statement of shri hemant singh counsel for m s thakural mechanical works without oath.
against m s jain industries and the dy.
registrar of trade marks under section 4656 and 107 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 for rectification of entry relating to the registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 after.
in these circumstances the request of the plaintiff is granted and petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition and file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
a learned single judge of the delhi high court however refused to stay the operation of the order of the board dated 27 10 2004 an appeal was preferred there against.
section 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register  1.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
concededly cl a of sub s 1 of s 46 is not attracted in the case.
for the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions we may notice the findings of the board as also the high court.
the board has taken the view that the period of five years and one month will begin to run from the date on which thukral became the proprietor of the trademark that is30th may1986 and therefore the rectification application could have been filed by the appellant only sometime in 1991 opining that an application for rectification against the appellant within a period of seven and a half months from the date of assignment of the trade mark was not maintainable the application was dismissed.
the high court on the other hand opined it was not anybody s case before us that m s jain industries.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
that is m s jain industries.
registration of a trade mark remains valid for seven years.
renewal applications are required to be filed on the expiry of seven years.
m s jain industries got itself registered and obtained periodical renewal thereof as is required under the act.
first respondent withdrew the application against m s jain industries.
3 scc 576 1992 indlaw sc 1107 or in the context of cl 22 of art 366 of the constitution as has been held in h h maharajadhiraja.
madhav rao jivaji rao scindia bahadur of gwalior h h maharajadhiraja.
however such an application can be filed only by a person aggrieved.
indisputably it would be the registered proprietor.
s 46 is a penal provision.
it provides for civil or evil consequences.
it takes away the valuable right of a registered proprietor.
it therefore can be taken away only when the conditions laid down therefor are satisfied.
but then such a case has to be made out.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
it must be proved in presence of the person against whom such allegations are made.
at the time of grant of original registration advertisements are issued and objections are called for.
renewal of registration in a sense also is not automatic.
it must not however be forgotten that s 461b provides for a special remedy.
as a person obtains a right on and from the date of registration andor renewal thereof he can ordinarily be deprived of his right unless it is shown that the assignment thereof by his holder was not a bona fide one or had been made by way of camouflage.
in other words the mistake of the predecessor should not be visited with non use of the present registered owner.
it must however be observed that whether a use is for bona fide purpose would essentially be a question of fact.
cls a and b operate in different fileds.
sub s 3 covers a case falling within cl b and not the cl a thereof.
it was furthermore opined there may be a case where owing to certain special circumstances a continuous use is not possible.
it was observed that in cases of intermittent use also cl b shall apply.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
that the appellant was an infringer both of the right of m s jain industries as also the first respondent and thus its use was not bona fide in a case of this nature can not be accepted.
if appellant infringed the right of m s jain industries it was for it to take action there for.
it did not.
first respondent itself accepts that at least immediately prior to the institution of the suit appellant had been using the same.
it obtained an or of injunction.
for one reason or the other the said order attained finality.
prima facie therefore appellant has been held to be the registered owner of the trade mark.
but it is another thing to say that the appellant could be proceeded against alone for non user of the registered trade mark for a period of more than five years.
notes on clauses.
consequential amendments have been made to cover services cl 47 of the bill.
such an application may be maintainable in terms of s 56 of the act but strictly not in terms of s 461b thereof and that too in the absence of the original registered proprietor.
the cause of action which permitted the first respondent to file an application for rectification against m s jain industries was non user thereof by it.
its non user and rectification of the register could not in the aforementioned situation have been tagged with the cause of action if any against the appellant.
it is not correct that no cause of action survived against jain industries.
it was not lost by reason of assignment as was contended by the learned counsel.
both the appellant and the respondent no 1 were the infringers of the right of m s jain industries as it was the registered proprietor of the trade mark in respect of the goods in question namely centrifugal pumps.
as it takes away somebody s right it deserves strict construction.
it does not provide for a sun set law.
it has to be adjudicated upon.
both the findings of the high court which we have noticed hereinbefore are findings on question of law and in that view of the matter the contention of mr sudhir chandra that the merit of the matter is yet to be gone into by the board can not be a ground for ignoring the submissions made at the bar.
our attention has again been drawn to a passage from law of trade marks geographical indications by shri k c kailasam wherein the judgment of the tribunal has been criticized in the following terms from the above legislative intent it would seem that the period of non use of the trade mark is to be reckoned continuously from the date of its registration.
rendered under the 1958 act it was held by the supreme court that the person seeking to have the trade mark removed from the register has only to prove.
such continuous non user.
it would appear that neither the u k act nor the indian act at any time envisaged that the commencement of 5 year period of non use is to be delinked from the date of registration of the mark so as to give a fresh lease of life to the registration every time there is change in the ownership of the mark.
if that be so any registered proprietor could easily defeat an application for rectification by assigning the mark to some other person to have a fresh period of 5 years from the date of assignment and thus effectively frustrate the very object of the provision in s 471a and b further it is to be noted that an assignment is subject to the provisions of the act and any rights vested in any other person see.
s 37 the assignor can not obviously transfer more rights than he himself has to the assignee under the act.
an assigner can transfer only such right which he possesses.
if his title is not extinguished by reason of a provision of a statute for non user of the trade mark for a period of five years any assignment made shall be valid subject to such situation which we have noticed in paragraph 25 supra.
for the views we have taken we are of the opinion that the impugned judgment can not be sustained.
it is set aside accordingly.
the board shall however proceed to determine afresh the application filed by the first in the light of the legal principles explained above.
the appeal is allowed with costs.
counsel s fee assessed at rs 100000.
appeal allowed.
