various sentences were passed against them by the additional sessions judge visakhapatnam who presided over the court.
the respondents preferred appeals before the high court challenging their convictions and sentences.
the high court allowed the two appeals acquitted the respondents and dismissed the application for revision preferred by the state.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
the aeco was appointed managing agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
some time later other industrial concerns the andhra cements ltd vi jayawada and the east coast ceremics.
rajahmurthy were started apparently by raju himself and the aeco was appointed the managing agent of each of these concerns.
the vesco had no managing director but at each meeting of its board of directors one of the directors used to be elected chairman.
the aeco on the other band always had a managing director first of whom was d l n raju.
according to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of d l n raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
the aeco as managing agents of vesco had appointed in the year 1939 one d v appala raju a trusted employee as its representative and as the secretary of vesco.
the respondent No 1.
he pressed his claim for appointment as secretary of vesco and representative of the managing agents at visakhapatnam and r h g raju appointed him to that post.
it is the prosecution case that as secretary of vesco and the resident representative of the managing agents the respondent No i was attending to the day to day affairs of vesco which included the receiving of all sums of money due to vesco spending money for the purpose of vesco attending to the appointment supervision and control of the staff of vesco purchasing materials required for the purpose of vesco and supervising over the accounts of vesco.
he was thus all important with respect to the every day affairs of vesco.
his dual capacity enabled the respondent No i to earn the confidence not only of the directors of aeco but also of those of vesco.
the accounts maintained by the vesco used to be explained by him not only to the directors but also to the shareholders.
the knowledge of the financial position of vesco obtained by them used to be derived essentially from the respondent No 1.
as secretary of vesco it was his duty to convene the meetings of the board of directors to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of vesco to convene meetings of the general body to prepare the managing agents report and the director s report as also to see to the presentation of auditors report and the statement of accounts.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
it was also his duty to have the accounts of vesco audited by the auditors elected by the general body and to produce before the auditors the relevant accounts vouchers bank statements and so on.
there were no complaints about the management of the affairs of vesco or the aeco till the end of 1946 or the beginning of 1947.
i secured the promotion of the approver k v ramana who was originally accounts clerk to the post of senior accountant.
similarly k v gopala raju was transferred from the post of stores clerk to the general department and k s n murty the discharged accused was appointed stores clerk in his place.
the approver who was originally an accounts clerk with the aeco was it may be mentioned appointed a cashier in vesco in 1946 at the instance of the respondent No i and was thus beholden to him.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i took both the approver and lakshminarayana rao in his confidence as also some other persons known and unknown for carrying out his nefarious purpose namely the misappropriation of the funds of vesco during the subsistence of aeco s managing agency of vesco.
the conspiracy is said to have been hatched in the year 1947 and falsification of accounts and misappropriation of funds of vesco went on till the end of the accounting year.
the term of the managing agency was renewed in 1943 and aeco con tinued to be managing agents until the vesco was taken over by the government in 1952.
i continued to be the secretary of vesco and resident representative of the managing agents throughout the period of conspiracy.
after the death of r k n g raju it was discovered that the aeco was indebted to many concerns which were under its managing agency the liability being shown either as that of aeco or that of r k n g raju personally.
again the vesco was shown as indebted to the andhra cement to the extent of rs 42 000.
this amount was however paid by the aeco from the funds of vesco.
the vesco used to receive large amounts of money from high tension power consumers such as the railways k g hospital the port administration the andhra university etc.
by cheques.
these amounts also used to be noted in the private note book and entered.
amounts which had been misappropriated used to be posted therein though in fact no orders were placed for any material.
apparently subba raju was fully satisfied with this and other explanations and therefore he appointed one c section raju who was the manager of andhra cements to supervise over the affairs of vesco apparently because of this a new method of misappropriation was adopted by the respondents by starting in the vesco account books an account called suspense account.
subba raju was not satisfied with the nature of supervision exercised by c section raju over the affairs of vesco because he used to look only at the cash book entries of the days on which he paid visits to vesco s office to which he used to go with previous intimation.
besides that c section raju s management of andhra cements had landed it into a loss of rs 30 000.
in january 1952 he therefore brought one section g krishna aiyar who had vast experience in the maintenance of accounts of electrical undertaking s having been chief accountant of the south madras electric supply corporation to undertake an investigation and then to act as financial adviser.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
section g krishna aiyar after his appointment in january 1952 made close enquiry and submitted an interim report.
further scrutiny of the accounts was being carried out by krishna aiyar and in his subsequent report he pointed out that rs 2 38 000 which were shown as having been paid to the andhra power system had actually not been paid.
in fact in april 1952 the collector attached vesco properties for realising this amount.
on may 13 1954 a chargesheet was filed against the two respondents as well as murti and the approver ramana.
od september 13 1954 ramana offered to make a full confession to the additional district magistrate independent who was empowered to grant pardon under section 337 of i he code of criminal procedure.
as already stated the additional sessions judge convicted both the respondents the respondent No i in respect of each head of the offences with which he was charged and the respondent No 2 in respect only of the offences of conspiracy and misappropriation.
in the first place according to the high court joint trial of two or more persons in respect of different offences cornmitted by each of them is illegal and that here as they were charged with having committed offences under section 120 b section 409 section 477 a and section 476467 i p c they could not be tried jointly.
next according to the high court even if section 239 is applicable its provisions are subject to those of section 234 and as such the trial being for more than three offences was impermissible.
then according to the high court offences under.
further according to the high court where a conspiracy has yielded its fruits the conspirators can be charged with the actual offences committed and not with conspiracy to commit those offences.
the approver s evidence was held by the high court to be inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal.
the high court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the evidence act.
the high court has further stated that inadmissible evidence was taken on record by the additional sessions judge namely account books of billimoria brothers maintained in gujrati and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing the prosecution to use those account books for establishing absence of entries with regard to certain payments alleged in the vesco books to have been made to them.
the points which he urged are briefly these 1 that there was a misjoinder of charges and persons in that the various provisions of section 239 were clubbed together and an omnibus charge of conspiracy was framed which on its face was one likely to embarrass the respondents and make their task of defending themselves difficult.
3 irrelevant evidence was introduced and some evidence was introduced in a manner not authorised by the evidence act.
the evidence of the approver was inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal that in any case it is unreliable was so found even by the sessions judge and must therefore be rejected.
if the evidence of the approver is left out the remaining evidence would be inadequate to sustain the prosecution case.
the first charge is in respect of the conspiracy alleged to have been entered into by the two respondents k v ramana the approver and others known and unknown to commit criminal breach of trust of the funds of vesco and in order to screen its detection to falsify the accounts of vesco and to use forged documents as genuine.
the second charge is for an offence of criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 and the accusation therein is that the two respondents along with ramana misappropriated 69 items aggregating to a little over rs 3 20 000.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
ramana made false entries on seven different dates in the account books between september 19 1947 and march 18 1952 and thus committed an offence under section 477 a i p c the fourth charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
ramana forged six documents on different dates between march 28 1949 and november 12 1951 and thus committed an offence under section 471 read with section 467 i p c as we have pointed out earlier the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge in respect of the third and fourth charges.
mr bhimasankaram supports the reason given by the high court for coming to the conclusion that there was a misjoinder of charges.
the main reasons upon which the conclusion of the high court is based are firstly that there could be no clubbing together of the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 and secondly that the respondents were charged with more than three offences of the same kind and that this was in contravention of section 239 c in coming to the conclusion that the provisions of various clauses of section 239 can not be applied cumulatively the high court has relied upon the decision in re vankavalapati gopala rao 1956 airandhra 21.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
if such a combination is permissible all persons accused of offences described in cls.
the chapter is split up into two sub heads form of chargesand joinder of charges.
section 224 deals with the interpretation of the language of the charge and section 225 with the effect of errors in the charge.
226 to 231 deal with the power of the court with regard to framing and altering charges and the procedure to be adopted at the trial where a charge is found to be defective or there is no charge or where a new charge is to be framed.
section 233 provides that for every distinct offence of which any person is accused there shall be a separate charge.
section 234.
1 deals with the trial of a person for offences of the same kind not exceeding three committed within the space of 12 months from the first to the last of such offences and section 231 2 what is meant by the expression offences of the same kind.
thus under this provision if the connection between the various offences is established the limitations placed by section 2341 both as regards the number and the period during which the offences are alleged to have been committed will not apply.
sub s 2 of section 235 deals with a case where an offence falls within two definitions and sub s 3 deals with a case in which a number of acts are alleged against an accused person different com binations of which may constitute different offences.
then we come to section 236 which provides that if a single act or series of acts is of such a nature that it is doubtful which of several offences the facts which can be proved will constitute the accused may be charged with having committed all or any of such offences and further provides that any number of such charges may be tried together.
thus this is a special provision available in case of doubt and is neither subject to the limitations prescribed by section 233 nor those of the other preceding provisions.
similarly if the second respondent were alone tried on the second charge his trial would not have been open to any objection if the allegation were that the offences were so connected together as to form the same transaction.
the concluding portion of section 239 shows that the provisions contained in the former part of chapter xix shall as far as may be apply to the charges framed with the aid of section 239.
obviously section 233 does not override the provisions of section 239.
again as already stated section 2341 does not override the provisions of section 2351 which permits trial of a person for more offences than one committed during any period provided they are so connected together as to form one transaction.
now since section 2341 can not be properly read a overriding section 2351 there is no valid reason for construing it as overriding the provisions of section 239 either.
there are also other reasons which point to this conclusion which we will set out while considering the argument advanced by mr bhimasankaram.
bhimasankaram contended that s 239 must be read at least subject to sections 2341 and 2351 on the ground.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
it was contended by mr chari that the expression former part would apply to the first sub division of chapter xix which deals with the form and content of the charges and the powers of the court with regard to the absence of charge and alteration of charge.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
on a plain construction of the provisions of section 239 therefore it is open to the court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law the provisions of sections 233 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
the decision of the allahabad high court in t r mukherji s case il is directly in point and is clearly to the effect that the different clauses of section 239 are mutually exclusive in the sense that it is not possible to combine the provisions of two or more clauses in any one case and to try jointly several persons partly by applying the provisions of one clause and partly by applying those of another or other clauses.
where however several offences are alleged to have been committed by several accused persons it may be more reasonable to follow the normal rule of separate trials.
b says that persons accused of an offence and persons accused of abetment or of an attempt to commit such offence may also be charged and tried together.
a and c c provides that persons accused of more than one offence of the same kind within the meaning of section 234 committed by them jointly within the period of twelve months could also be charged and tried together.
two persons a and b enter a house at night and first together commit the murder of a man sleeping there and then also his wife.
each of them has committed two offences and each of them participated in the same offence.
let us say that the grievous hurt was caused as a result of lathi blows given by x and y simple hurt was caused by lathi blows given by z here the offences committed were those under sections 147 302 325 and 323 i p c the offences being different and the persons commiting the offences being different they could not be tried jointly only with the help of cl.
d yet the transaction in which the offences were committed is the same and there is a close association amongst the persons who have committed the different offences.
similarly z can be charged with offence s under sections 147 323 and offences under section 302.
the same offence committed by all of them is that under section 147 and all of them can be tried jointly in respect of that offence under cl.
this means that the trial for an offence under section 147 will have to be separated from the trial for the different offences committed by them.
it is difficult to appreciate how this case assists the conclusion arrived at by the high court.
the precise point which we have to consider here did not fall for consideration in that case i e whether the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 could be used together or not.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
there nine persons were jointly tried for an offence under section 5 1 c and d of the prevention of corruption act 1947 and section 109 i p c read with s 420 section 466 and section 467 i p c and all except one for offences under sections 420 467471 i p c some of them were also charged with separate offences under some of these provisions.
but on appeal by the state of andhra pradesh to this court this court held that there was no misjoinder of charges that the introduction of a large number of charges spread over a long period was a question of propriety and that it should be left to the judge or the magistrate trying the case to adopt the course which he thought to be appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case.
it is true that the question of reading the various clauses cumulatively did not specifically arise for decision in that case but the high court had held that the first charge was an omnibus charge containing as many as 203 offences and that it was in direct violation of sections 234 235 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure.
but then section 235 1 provides that if in any one series of acts so connected together as to form the same transaction more offences than one are committed by the same person he may be charged with and tried at one trial for every such offence.
therefore where the alleged offences have been committed in the course of the same transaction the limitation placed by section 234 1 can not operate.
no doubt the offence mentioned in charge No i is alleged to have been committed not by just one person but by all the accused and the question is whether all these persons can be jointly tried in respect of all these offences.
this section provides that the following persons may be charged and tried together namely 1 persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction 2 persons accused of abetment or an attempt to commit such an offence 3 persons accused of different offences committed in the course of the same transaction.
but in the case before us no objection was taken to multiplicity or misjoinder of charges before the learned additional sessions judge and it was only in the high court that the point was raised.
in such circumstances what the court has to consider is whether prejudice has in fact been caused to the accused by reason of the multiplicity of charges or misjoinder if any of the charges.
merely because the accused persons are charged with a large number of offences and convicted at the trial the conviction can not be set aside by the appellate court unless it in fact came to the conclusion that the accused persons were embarrassed in their defence with the result that there was a failure of injustice.
bhimasankaram supporting the view taken by the high court then contends that it is not permissible to frame a charge of conspiracy when the matter has proceeded beyond the stage of conspiracy and that in pursuance of it offences have actually been committed.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
in swamirathnam s case 1 which is a decision of this court certain persons were tried for the offence of the conspiracy to cheat the members of the public and for specific offences of cheating in pursuance of that conspiracy.
this court held that the charge as framed disclosed a single conspiracy although spread over several years that there was one object of the conspiracy and that was to cheat the members of the public that the fact that in the course of years other joined the conspiracy or that several incidents of cheating took place in pursuance of the conspiracy did not have the effect of splitting the conspiracy into several conspiracies.
that the several instances of cheating being alleged to be in pursuance of that conspiracy were parts of the same transaction and therefore the joint trial of the accused persons for the different offences was not vitiated.
in that case the impact of section 120 b i p c on sections 233 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure was considered by this court and this court observed.
again what was said by this court was that it is undesirable to complicate a trial by introducing a large number of charges spread over a long period but even so this was a question of propriety which should be left to the discretion of the judge or magistrate trying the case.
objection was taken very seriously by mr bhimasankaram to the charge of conspiracy framed in this case.
that charge reads thus adverting to the portion which we have bracketed his first objection was that the charge comprises within it not merely the conspiracy but also what was in fact done in pursuance of the conspiracy.
the offence of conspiracy is an entirely independent offence and though other offences are committed in pursuance of the conspiracy the liability of the conspirators for the conspiracy itself can not disappear.
in the indian penal code as originally enacted conspiracy was not an offence.
section 120 b which makes criminal conspiracy punishable was added by the indian criminal law amendment act 1913 8 of 1913 along with section 120 a section 120 a defines conspiracy and section 120 b provides for the punishment for the offence of conspiracy.
section 120 b provides that whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards shall be punishable in the same manner as if he has abetted such offence unless there was an express provision in the code for the punishment of such conspiracy.
criminal conspiracy was however not an unknown thing before the amendment of the indian penal code in 1913.
but what the amendment did was to make that conspiracy itself punishable.
no doubt as already stated where offences for committing which a conspiracy was entered into have actually been committed it may not in the particular circumstances of a case be desirable to charge the offender both with the conspiracy and the offences committed in pursuance of that conspiracy.
as we are remanding the appeal to the high court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the evidence of the approver.
we do not think that either that or the other objection raised that is that the charge embraces within it all the offences said to have been committed by the respondents can properly.
coming to the next point of mr bhimsankaram regarding the abuse of powers under section 342 his first contention was that long and involved questions were put to the respondents.
his second contention was that reference was made to a number of documents in some of these questions and those documents were not made available to the respondents for answering those questions.
finally he said that the court did not perform its duty under section 342 4 of the code as amended as it failed to bring to the notice of the respondents that they may if they chose give evidence in their defence.
while we are disposed to agree with learned counsel that the questions embrace a number of matters and that it would have been better if those matters had been made the subjects of separate questions the answers given by the respondents clearly show that they understood the questions and wherever possible they have given complete answers to those questions.
that is to say they have given their explantion regarding the circumstances appearing in the evidence set out in the questions and wherever that was not feasible they have said that they would do so in their written statements.
we are also satisfied that there is no substance in the complaint that the questioning bordered on cross examination.
the irrelevant evidence to which mr bhimasankaram referred was certain account books.
they also show payment case was that the payments which were entered in the account of vesco do not find a place in the account books of the corresponding firms or authorities because they were never made by vesco.
the high court has pointed out that the main evidence on which the prosecution rests its case that the amount represented by the entries against these various firms were in.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
what it does is to make entries in books of account regularly kept in the course of business relevant in all proceedings in a court of law.
lord robertson during the course of the hearing has observed that no inference can be drawn from the absence of any entry relating to any particular matter which observation supports the view taken in queen empress v girish chander banerjee 1884 i l r 10 c l 1024.
similarly there is section 5 of the evidence act which reads thus it is the case of the prosecution that the alleged payments were never made by vesco to the various firms.
it may further be mentioned that the account books of vesco show certain payments made to billimoria co of kharagpur.
papers seized by the police include receipts purporting to have been signed by one j j billimoria on behalf of the firm.
he contends that since the offence is punishable with transportation for life section 337 1 could not be availed of for granting pardon to the approver.
on the strength of these considerations mr chari for the state contends that if the words any offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 10 years were interpreted to mean offences which were punishable with imprinsonment of less than 10 years grave offences which are not exclusively triable by a court of sessions will be completely out of section 337 1.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
mr chari then referred to section 133 of the evidence act and pointed out that this section clearly makes an accomplice evidence admissible in a case and that an approver whose pardon is found to be invalid does not cease to be an accomplice and contends that he is therefore as competent a witness as he would have been if he had not been granted pardon at all and not been put on trial.
