this appeal by special leave is from the judgment and order of the high court of andhra pradesh dated 15th april 1986.
in 1954there was wakfnama by the said sail nawaz jung.
the military estate officer secunderabad of.
andhra pradesh requested for the requisition of the property named as sail gulshan with a vast extent of land and palaces with roads and surrounded by a compound wail measuring 19 acres and 10 guntas situated in the heart of hyderabad city near sarojini devi hospital.
in this appeal we are concerned with the claim for compensation for the said acquisition by one abdul khader who was a flower picker.
hereinafter called the central act the gazette notification for the acquisition was issued on 12th march1970 the controversy in this case relates to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant under the andhra pradesh telangana area.
act no xxi of 1950.
hereinafter called the andhra pradesh act.
s 2r states that the expression protected means a person who is deemed to be a protected tenant under the provisions of the said act.
chapter iv of the andhra pradesh act deals with protected tenants and s 34 of the said act provides who is to be considered as a protected tenant and uses the expression that a person shall subject to the provisions of sub ss 2 and 3be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of the land if he has fulfilled the conditions mentioned in clauses a and b of sub s 1 of s 34 of the said act.
sub s 2 of s 34 of the said act also deals with to be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of any landfor certain purposes.
s 35 of the said act deals with decision on claims and stipulates by sub s 1 of s 35 of the said act that if any question arises whether any person and if so what person is deemed under s 34 to be a protected tenant in respect of any land the landholder or any person claiming to be so deemed may within one year from the commencement of the act apply in the prescribed form to the tahsildar for the decision of the question and the tahsildar shall after enquiring into the claim or claims in the manner prescribed declare what person is entitled to be deemed to be protected tenant or as the case may be that no person is so entitled.
sub s 2 of s 35 stipulates that a declaration by the tahsildar that the person is deemed to be a protected tenant or in the event of an appeal from the tahsildar s decision such declaration by the collector on first appeal or by the board of revenue on second appeal shall be conclusive that such person is a protected tenant and his rights as such shall be recorded in the record of right of where there is no record of rights in such village record as may be prescribed.
s 37 deals with persons not entitled under s 34 to be deemed in certain circumstances as protected tenants.
s 38 of the said act deals with right of protected tenant to purchase land.
sub s 2 of s 40 of the said act indicates who are the heirs who would be entitled to hold the tenancy on the death of the protected tenant and on what terms.
sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides that if a protected tenant dies without leaving any heirs all his rights shall be so extinguished.
the explanation to sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides who should be deemed to be the heirs of a protected tenant.
it is necessary also to note the provisions of s 99 of the act.
it is as follows 99 bar of jurisdiction 1.
save as provided in this act.
no order of the tahsildar tribunal or collector or of the board of revenue or government made under this act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
s 3 of the said act gave power to requisition immovable property.
the main question centres around the right of abdul khader respondent no 1 herein to the compensation awarded by the arbitrator it is therefore necessary to refer to the relevant portion of the said order which inter alia stated as follows by perusal of the tenancy register of 1958 it is evident that sri mohd abdul khader is not a genuine protected tenant.
i suspect that somebody has tampered the register and entered the name of sri mohd abdul khader.
1the learned single judge vaidya j held inter alia as follows whether the petitioner abdul khader is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the suit property are matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the central act.
the order was passed by the district revenue officer who held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant.
he held further that khasra pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of abdul khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the protected tenancy register prepared under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act was supported by an enquiry.
in civil revision petition no 1006 of 1972 which was filed by abdul khader as against others justice r ramachandra raju of the andhra pradesh high court on or about 19th august1974 held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant and directed deletion of entry made in the final record of tenancies as a spurious one.
the learned judge observed inter alia as follows i am told by the counsel for both the parties that the lands in question were already acquired for military purpose under the requisition and acquisition of immovable property act1952 and that sri m s sharma the additional chief judge city civil court hyderabad has already been appointed as arbitrator under the act for determining the compensation and the persons entitled to it.
not only that in the writ petition filed by the present petitioner in this court it was held that it is not necessary to go into the question whether the petitioner is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the property because they are the matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the act.
the matter was brought to this court by a special leave application and this court in special leave petition civil no 10 of 1975 on or about 30th january 1975 held that since the question whether the petitioner in that case namely abdul khader was a protected tenant had been left open by the high court to be decided by the arbitrator u s 8 of the central act special leave petition was rejected with those observations.
u s 81b of the central act.
claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator claim petition was also filed by abdul khader claiming 60 of compensation as a protected tenant.
there was an award by the arbitrator holding that as this court had left it open to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant.
despite the objection exercising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question of protected tenant the arbitrator held that abdul khader was a protected tenant.
in the meantime abdul khader filed an application on or about 21st of october1984 for adducing additional evidence to mark kaulnama dated 2nd of december1950 for the first time and oubuliatnama dated 2nd december1950 as exhibits in deciding the protected tenancy rights.
shri subba rao learned counsel for the respondents submits that the appellants should not be permitted to withdraw from the authorities concerned more than 40 per cent of the total compensation awarded in respect of the lands in question pending disposal of the appeal before the high court.
in the judgment under appeal which is directed against the award made by the arbitrator formulated the following four issues  1 what is the value of the land 2 who are entitled to the compensation amount 3 whether abdul khader is a protected tenant of sail gulshan of the area 19 02 guntas excluding the land of buildings wells etc and 4 what share is to be apportioned to successors of sail nawaz jung.
in this appeal we are concerned with the question whether the high court was right in upholding the award of the arbitrator so far as it has held in favour of abdul khader and his rights to get 60 of the compensation.
we are not concerned with the challenge to this aspect in this appeal.
fruits.
the land was taken possession of under a panchanama dated 12th of september1963 according to the high court the documents discussed in the judgment indicated that shaik hussain was a tenant from 1935 after his death on july 181949his son mohd abdul khader became a tenant.
