these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
they having come to learn that certain vacancies exist in the respondent authority applied therefor although no advertisement in that behalf was issued.
the respondent authority appointed the appellants and posted them to an overseas project known as indore habitat project which was implemented through the agency of overseas development authority hereinafter referred to as the oda on daily wages.
rs 63 per day for the degree holders and rs 52 50 per day for the diploma holders.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
they were also being granted the benefit of leave.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
the parties filed their respective pleadings before the labour court and also adduced their respective evidences.
the labour court on the basis of the materials produced before it arrived at the following findings 1.
the appellants were appointed by the indore development authority.
their work was satisfactory.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
there is no difference in their work and the work of the employees of indore development authority.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
dr rajiv dhawan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 and mr m n rao learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 335 of 2002 took us through materials on records and contended that the appellants herein became permanent employees of the respondents having regard to the provisions contained in section 2 of the 1961 act and order 2i and 2vi of the standard standing orders as set out in the annexure appended to the 1963 rules defining permanent employees and the temporary employees.
placing reliance on several documents which have come into existence at a subsequent stage dr dhawan would contend that vacancies in fact had arisen after passing of the judgment of the high court and thus the services of the appellants should be regularized there against.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
mr v r reddy learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would contend that indisputably the appellants were engaged by the respondent authority but such appointments were made for the purpose of the project financed by oda.
classification of employees.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
probationers iv badlies v apprentices and vi temporary.
i a permanent employee is one who has completed six months satisfactory service in a clear vacancy in one or more posts whether as a probationer or otherwise or a person whose name has been entered in the muster roll and who is given a ticket of permanent employee vi.
temporary employee means an employee who has been employed for work which is essentially of a temporary character or who is temporarily employed as an additional employee in connection with the temporary increase in the work of a permanent nature provided that in case such employee is required to work continuously for more than six months he shall be deemed to be a permanent employee within the meaning of cl.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
it is also not in dispute that the state government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the adhiniyam has made rules known as m p development authority services officers and servants recruitment rules 1987.
the posts of sub engineers in which the appellants were appointed.
the question therefore which arises for consideration is as to whether they could lay a valid claim for regularization of their services.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
jt 2004 6 sc 110 2004 indlaw sc 606 a three judge bench of this court of which we were members upon taking into consideration a large number of decisions held although we do not intend to express any opinion as to whether the cooperative society is a state within the meaning of article but it is beyond any cavil of doubt that the writ petition will be maintainable when the action of the cooperative society is violative of mandatory statutory provisions.
the state has not created any post nor they could do so on their own.
vs state of jammu kshmir ors.
jt 2004 8 sc 531 2004 indlaw sc 729 a division bench of this court opined no person illegally appointed or appointed without following the procedure prescribed under the law is entitled to claim that he should be continued in service.
vs union of india and others 1987 supp.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
it appears that there existed a scheme for regularization and some directions were issued in terms thereof.
the 1961 act was enacted to provide for rules defining with sufficient precision in certain matters the conditions of employment of employees in undertakings in the state of madhya pradesh.
by reason of the provisions of the said act application of standard standing orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the standard standing orders have been specified.
it is furthermore not in dispute that adhiniyam came into force in 1973.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
it is accepted that no appointment letter was issued in favour of the appellants.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
we have noticed hereinbefore that in the case of om prakash mondloi the ceo made an endorsement to the effect that he may be tried in daily wages and should be entrusted with the work of progress collection of oda work.
they might have been subjected to the provisions of the employees provident fund and might have been granted the benefit of leave or given some employment code and their names might have found place in the seniority list amongst others but thereby they can not be said to have been given a permanent ticket.
with a view to become eligible to be considered as a permanent employee or a temporary employee one must be appointed in terms thereof.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
the matter relating to recruitment is governed by the 1973 act and the 1987 rules.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
but in absence of any conflict in the provisions of the said act the conditions of service including those relating to recruitment as provided for in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules would apply.
we have noticed the provisions of the act and the rules.
no case was made out by the appellants herein in their statements of claim that they became permanent employees in terms thereof.
the nature of their employment continues save and except a case where a statute interdicts which in turn would be subject to the constitutional limitations.
if the appellants were appointed for the purpose of the project they would be deemed to have been appointed therefor and only because such appointments had been made by the respondent would by itself not entitle them to claim permanency.
the life of the project came to an end on 30 6 1997.
the maintenance job upon completion thereof had been taken over by indore municipal corporation.
we have referred to the said fact only for the purpose of showing that it would not be correct to contend that the appellants had no access to the said documents.
the labour court did not draw any adverse inference.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
we can not but bear in mind the fact that the initial burden of establishing the factum of their continuous work for 240 days in a year rests with the applicants respondents.
equal pay for equal work.
conclusion.
