Appeal by special leave from the Award dated March 10 1959 of the Industrial Tribunal.
A V Viswanatha Sastri and T V R Tatachari for the appellant Janardan Sharma for the resondents.
January 29.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by WANCHOOJ.
This is an appeal by special leave in an industrial matter.
The brief facts necessary for present purposes are these.
The appellant in a saw mill carrying on business in Kozihkode in 824 the State of Kerala.
One Sankaran was in the employ of the appellant as a crosscutter.
It is said that on June 21 1958 Sankaran came drunk to they mill and abused the Engineer the Secretary and others and threatened them with physical violence.
He was caught hold of by other workmen and taken outside.
It is said that he came again a short time later at 4 30 pm and abused the same persons again.
Thereupon the appellant served a charge sheet on Sankaran on June 24 1958 acting out the above facts and asked him to show cause why his services should not be terminated on account of his grave indiscipline and misconduct.
Sankaran gave an explanation the same day denying the allegations of fact made against him though he admitted that he had come to the mill at the relevant time for taking his wages for that week.
On June 25 1958 Sankaran was informed that in view of his denial a departmental inquiry would be held and he was also placed under suspension pending inquiry.
The same day Sankaran protested against his suspension and requested that in any case the departmental inquiry should be expedited.
As no inquiry was held till July 2 1958 Sankaran again wrote to the appellant to hold the inquiry as early as possible.
On July 8 1958 the appellant terminated the services of Sankaran under r 18 a of the Standing Orders without holding any departmental inquiry and the order was communicated to Sankaran the same day.
In that order the appellant informed Sankaran that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if he was retained in the service of the appellant and therefore it considered that no inquiry should be held.
The claim thus put forward on behalf of the appellant is that it is entitled under r 18a of the Standing orders which is a term of contract between the appellant and its employees to dispense with the service of any employee at any time by just giving 14 days notice or paying 12 days wages.
Appeal dismissed.
