it case for initiating any procee d ings for contempt against the respondents.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by OJHA J.
Kindly acknowledge receipt.
The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
The writ petition w as contested by the respondents thereto inter alia on t he ground that under the rules of promotion from Supervisor  A  to Chargeman II first Departmental Promotion Committee at the factory level and then a Departmental Committee at t he Central level screens the service record of each of t he Supervisors A  who comes within the range of eligibili ty and then finally the Director General of Ordnance Factori es draws up a list and sanctions promotions.
It was furth er asserted that in accordance with the said rule the cases of all the appellants were screened by the Promotion Committ ee at the factory level and then at the Central level and th ey not having been found fit were not promoted.
It appears th at the criterion of promotion is seniority cum merit.
T he learned Single Judge however did not go into the merits of the controversy and dismissed the writ petition on t he ground of unexplained laches and also on the ground that a previous petition for similar relief had not been presse d Against the 98 judgment of the learned Single Judge the appellants pr e ferred a special appeal before a Division Bench of th at Court.
The learned Judges who decided the special appeal d id not consider it appropriate to uphold the dismissal of t he writ petition on the technical ground which found favo ur with the learned Single Judge and they went into the meri ts of the respective contentions of the parties.
They howeve r did not find any substance in the submission made on beha lf of the appellants and accordingly dismissed the speci al appeal on 8th February 1977.
The learned Judges pointed o ut that it was admitted that the conditions of service applic a ble to the case of the appellants were governed by t he Indian Ordnance Factories Recruitment and Conditions of Service of Class III Personnel Rules 1956 hereinaft er referred to as the Rules framed by the President of Ind ia under Article 309 of the Constitution.
It was further poin t ed out that Rule 8 contemplated that appointments by prom o tion were to be made on the basis of a selection list pr e pared for the different grades by duly constituted Depar t mental Promotion Committees laid down in the said ru le whereas Rule 12 provided that no appointment to the posts to which these rules apply shall be made otherwise than as specified therein.
With regard to the circular dated 6 th November 1962 the learned Judges took the view that it w as difficult to read in that circular any intention or delibe r ation on the part of the Director General of Ordnance Fact o ries that as soon as two years were completed by a diplo ma holder in the Grade of Supervisor A  there would be an automatic promotion to the post of Chargeman Il.
Accordi ng to the learned Judges such a view would militate again st Rule 12 of the Rules mentioned above.
It was further he ld that even if it was to be assumed that the Director Gener al of Ordnance Factories automatically promoted some Superv i sors A  immediately on the completion of 2 years of servi ce to the post of Chargeman II without the recommendation aft er screening by the Promotion Committee no right would accr ue in favour of the appellants inasmuch as such promotio ns would be in the teeth of Rule 12 and could not confer a legal right on the appellants to be likewise promoted in breach of Rule 12.
With regard to the plea based on Artic le 16 of the Constitution.
it was held A half hearted argume nt was raised at the end of the hearing on behalf of the appe l lant petitioners that they have been discriminated again st by depriving them the benefit of automatic promotion in violation of constitutional guarantee under Article 16 of the Constitution.
This was an argument neither pleaded as a ground for the petition nor was raised before the learn ed Single Judge.
Moreover we do not think any case on t he basis of violation of Article 16 of the Constitution can be found in favour of the appellant petitioners only becau se some 99 supervisors equally placed were promoted against the rul es of service.
No formal foundation has been raised in t he pleadings in the writ petition in support of the grou nd based on Article 16 of the Constitution.
It reads Heard counsel.
Special leave granted.
Our attention has been invited by learned counsel for bo th the sides to the relevant rules which govern promotion to the post of Chargeman Grade II.
It appears that a lar ge number of persons have been promoted to those posts thou gh they have completed only two years of service.
The Gover n ment now appears to insist that in so far as the appellan ts are concerned they cannot be considered for promotion unle ss they complete three years of service.
We see no justific a tion for any such differential treatment being given to t he appellants.
If a large number of other persons similar ly situated have been promoted as Chargeman Grade II aft er completing two years of service there is no reason why t he appellants should also not be similarly promoted aft er completing the same period of service.
If the appellants are promote d they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
Now we shall rev rt to the exact prayers made in the three miscellaneous pet i tions aforesaid.
The reliefs prayed for in the above two civil miscellaneo us petitions are thus of an interim nature.
 The aforesaid writ petitions came up for hearing befo re a bench of two learned Judges of this Court on 9th Septe m ber 1987.
It was also brought to our notice that similar ly placed 125 employees got the benefit of the circular dat ed 6th November 1962 in pursuance of an order passed by t he Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April 1983 in writ pet i tions filed by them.
