Appeal No 949 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 11 1964 of the Madras High Court in Tax Case No 181 of 1962.
M C Chagla and B R Agarwala for the appellant.
CJ V Ramaswami and A N Grover JJ.
The case was twice re manded to the Tribunal.
The first Order of the Court remanding the case to the Tribunal was delivered by Shah Ag C J Ms Amarchand Sobhachand a firm registered under the Indian Income tax Act 1922 carried on business at Madras in drugs chemicals mercury camphor and silk yam and as money lenders.
There were two partners of the firm Mohanlal Sagmal and Seshmal Sobhachand and Ramniklal and Lakshmichand minors were admitted to the benefits of the partnership each with 732 share in the profits.
The appellants had for a long time business relations with a firm styled Bhojaji Sobhachand carrying on business at Bombay as importers of yam and also as agents and adathias.
Sobhachand one of the partners of Bhojaji Sobhachand with 16 share in the profit and loss is the father of Seshmal Ramniklal and Lakshmichand partners of the appellants.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect of their business transactions.
Entries relating to interest were posted till the end of Samvat Year 2006 in the account on the amount due at the foot of the account.
In the interest of justice we direct that the question be reframed as follows  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal erred in disallowing the debt of Rs 268385 written off by the assessee in their books of account as irrecoverable.
 The two branches of the question as reframed then are 1 Whether the debt or any part thereof is in respect of loans made 419 in the ordinary course of money lending business of the appellants and 2 whether the debt or any part thereof is in respect of the other business of the appellants.
We are of the view that before the question may be answered it is necessary to call for a supplementary statement of the case from the Tribunal.
The Tribunal s order is very brief  it gives no reasons in support of the conclusions.
After receipt of the supplementary statement of case from the Tribunal the appeal was heard by J C Shah K section Hegde and A N Grover JJ.
In the assessment of income tax of the appellant for the assessment year 1952 53 relevant to the account year Samvat 2008 the assessee claimed a deduction of Rs 268385 as bad debt due from the Bombay firm incurred by that firm in the course of business transactions.
reframed the question as follows Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Appellate Tribunal erred in disallowing a sum of Rs 268385 written off by the assessee in their books of accounts as irrecoverable  By its order dated July 29 1969 this Court called upon the Tribunal to submit a supplementary statement of case on the reframed question.
The only facts in favour of the assessee are that incidental charges are debited to the Bombay firm in respect of some of the remittances and there is a flow of moneys to the Bombay firm up to 10 3 1952 when the last of the remittances was sent to it before the firm collapsed in about April 1952.
On the other hand the narrations in the entries as they stand the failure to adjust interest in the account of the Bombay firm at the stage at which it became a debtor in Samvat year 2007 the manner in which the partner of the appellant firm tried to explain the position in March 1954 and the stand of the firm itself at all earlier stages support the case of the Department 12.
It is also true that the tribunal after catalogueing the arguments advanced at the bar has come to certain abrupt conclusions but all the tame it cannot be denied that the findings reached by the tribunal are findings of fact and those findings are supported by the evidence on record.
