Neither the use of the term electrode to describe them suggesting a connection with electricity nor their utilisation in a process involving application of electrical power could convert them into electrical goods as contemplated by the entry in the Madras Act.
The High Court rightly observed that these decisions had no bearing whatsoever upon the very different entry in a schedule of an entirely different Act of a different State.
The additional cases cited before us were Pashabhai Patel  CoP Ltd vs Collector of Sales Tax Maharashtra State4 where it was held a tractor 1 TRC No 26 of 2962 decided on 9th August 1963 2 1968 22 STC 172 Madras 3 1968 22 STC 476 Madras 4 1964 15 STC32.
The meaning of this entry can only be satisfactorily determined in the light of the language of the entry itself considered in the context in which it occurs.
The entry No 4 occurs in a schedule in which descriptions of goods to be taxed indicate that the expression required for use there with has been employed for equipment or accessories connected with the main purpose.
For instance in entry No 5 the expression occurs at the end as follows Photographic and other cameras and enlargers films and plates paper and cloth and other parts and accessories required for use therewith.
It is not enough to show that the article can be put to other uses also.
The words parts thereof are used in several entries such as entry No 6 for clocks time pieces and watches entry No 10 for dictaphones and other similar apparatus for recording sound and entry No 11 for sound transmitting equipment such as telephones and loud speakers.
our object in indicating the nature of entries amdist which entry No 4 occurs is to show that some precision has been attempted in making the entries.
Of course even where an entry relates to parts manufactured for use for a particular kind of instrument of gadget only the article manufactured to serve as a part of a particular kind of apparatus would not cease to be covered by the intended entry simply because a purchaser makes some other use of it.
We find that the term accessories is used in the schedule to describe goods which may have been manufactured for use as an aid or addition.
A sense in which the word accessory is used is given in Webster s Third New International Dictionary as follows all objects or device that is not essential in itself but that adds to the beauty convenience or effectiveness of something else.
Other meanings given there are supplementary or secondary to something of greater or primary importance additional any of several mechanical devices that assist in operating or controlling the tone resources of an organ Accessories are not necessarily confined to particular machines for which they may serve as aids.
We think that the Andhra Pradesh High Court correctly held that the main use of the arc carbons under consideration was duly proved to be that of production of powerful light used in projectors in cinemas.
The fact that they can also be used for search lights signalling stage lighting or where powerful lighting for photography or other purposes may be required could not detract from the classification to which the carbon arcs belong.
That is determined by their ordinary or commonly known purpose or user.
