He also accepted the hospitality of the Technological Institute of Textiles Mills people who also took him for a sight seeing from Dadri to Pilani.
In order to prevent unwanted disclosure of its contents the communica tion in question was brought personally by two members of the Bar Association Bhiwani to Chandigarh in a closed cover addressed to the Chief Justice for being handed over to him for his personal attention.
have no relevance or relation to the functioning of the learned Judge of the High Court.
The deponent submits that there was no intention whatsoever on his part to scandalise the Hon ble Judge or this Hon ble Court or to lower the authority or undermine the prestige of the learned Judge or of the Hon  ble Court or to weaken in any way the confidence of the people in the administration of justice.
 The Full Bench of the High Court consisting of Justice Surjit Singh Sandhawalia Justice Prem Chand Jain and Jus tice Bhupinder Singh Dhillon extracted portions from the affidavit of the appellants to which references has been made.
The Full Bench thereafter referred to paragraph 9 of the affidavit where the deponents said that if in view of this Hon ble Court the action of the deponent in addressing the letter in question constituted for any reason contempt of court no one would be more sorry than the deponent himself.
In the absence of any finding by the High Court that the appellants committed any contempt of court there was never any occasion for acceptance of apology.
It is no part of the duty of a Judge nor is it a duty in discharge of office of a Judge to go and address a meeting on political matters to redress grievances of the people.
However if the speech of any Judge is criticised and if it becomes a disputed question of fact as to whether any Judge did speak or not as is alleged by the writer the matter would have to be ascertained by the court on facts whether the Judge concerned did speak on the matters ascribed to him before the court would take any action against the persons who would criticise the Judge s speech.
To say that will not by itself be a contempt.
