The following Judgements were delivered PATHAK J.
Tata Consultant Engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited.
The Reference was numbered I T No 292 of 1975.
The dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
The appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
OptrRecep tionistAssist.
Asstt 35 1020 EB 40 1300 1265 EB 45 1490.
70 1690 80 2010.
The Tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
Since the award has been already signed I do not think anything further can be added to this award.
The Charter of Demands was presented by the Union in July 1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the State Government made the reference to the Industrial Tribunal in 1975.
They are considerations which cannot be ignored.
The challenge embodied in the second contention against the amendment of the award is more serious.
That the increase was pertinent to the general pay scales in the revised wage structure is patently clear from a comparison of the existing pay scales and the revised pay scales.
The addition was integrated as a feature of the wage scales it was not regarded as an addition to the pay of each individual workman.
The original award was completed and signed by the Tribunal and it cannot be reopened now except for the limited purpose of Rule 31.
Our attention has been drawn to what purports to be an endorsement by counsel for the appellant on the application dated 22nd December 1978 filed by the Union before the Tribunal to the effect that the appellant would submit to whatever the Tribunal decided and it is urged that the appellant is bound by the order made on the application.
The only contention of the workmen is that the Tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
It is wrong in principle it is said to provide a fixed dearness allowance.
In the said award Your Honour has observed at the end of Para 22 In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance .
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
The Union therefore prays the honourable Tribunal to clarify the position and correct the award accordingly.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
Since the award has been already signed I do not think anything further can be added to this award.
The endorsement made on the application by the Advocate for the company does not indicate that the company had any objection to the award being corrected as sought by the employees union.
Implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
For some years to come this is likely to be one of the few Consulting Engineers who will be securing major contracts.
The profits have increased all along.
Therefore they filed an application before the Tribunal for correcting the award so as to bring out what was intended.
The application before the Tribunal was filed under Rule 31 of the Bombay Industrial Disputes Rules 1957 which is as follows A Board Court Labour Court Tribunal or Arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
We are not impressed with the submission of the learned counsel for the Company that the corrigendum was in effect a fresh award.
We have already indicated that we agree with our brother Pathak J that the appeal Civil Appeal No 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen should also be dismissed.
SR Appeals dismissed.
