Industrial Corpn.
These two clauses of section 69 and clauses v and vi of section 68 were inserted in their present shape by Ordinance 26 of 1975 which came into force on February 27 1976.
It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
In the case last cited the Privy Council qualified its statement of the law by saying that the principle that an amendment of the first law which is not expressly made applicable to the subsequent incorporating Act cannot be deemed to be incorporated into the second Act applies if it is possible for the subsequent Act to function effectually without the addition page 267.
It provides that for the purpose of taxation the Special Area Development Authority shall have the powers which a Municipal Corporation or a Municipal Council has under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961.
The property tax is imposed by respondent 1 under section 127A of the Municipalities Act and section 135 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
It is not possible to accept this submission because sections 127A and 135 of the two Acts in question leave no such choice open to the taxing authority.
The obligation which the statute places upon it is to impose tax on lands where there are lands only and they can be taxed on buildings where buildings alone can be brought to tax and on both lands and buildings where lands are built upon and both can be brought to tax.
The appellant companies were incorporated under the for a lawful purpose.
It is true that on account of the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Act 1957 the legislative field covered by Entry 23 of List II will pass on to Parliament by virtue of Entry 54 List I.
one of which is to provide for the development and administration of Special Areas through Special Area Development Authorities Section 64 of the Act of 1973 which provides for the constitution of the special areas lays down by sub section 4 that Notwithstanding anything contained in the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961 or the Madhya Pradesh Panchayats Act 1962 the Municipal Corporation Municipal Council Notified Area Committee or a Panchayat as the case may be shall in relation to the special area and as from the date the Special Area Development Authority undertakes the functions under clause v or clause vi of section 68 cease to exercise the powers and perform the function and duties which the Special Area Development Authority is competent to exercise and perform under the Act of 1973.
Those authorities have the power to levy that tax in order effectively to discharge the municipal functions which are passed on to them.
Entry 54 of List I does not contemplate the taking over of municipal functions.
The power conferred by the State Legislature on Special Area Development Authorities to impose the property tax on lands and buildings is therefore not in conflict with the power conferred by the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act on the Union Government to regulate and develop the Coal mines so as to ensure rational and scientific utilisation of coal resources.
That the declaration in section 2 of the does not result in invalidation of every State legislation relating to mines and minerals is demonstrated effectively by the decision in State of Haryana  Anr.
In that case 12 sugar undertakings stood transferred to and were vested in a Government undertaking under the UP Sugar Undertakings Acquisition Ordinance 1971 which later became an Act.
We adopt particularly the reasoning of the High Court that in the meeting of January 29 1976 respondent 1 had decided to give up its right to impose the Octroi tax only.
