Appeal No 1713NT of 1973.
It was also stated to be carrying on business of advancing money and taking money on loan when necessary.
But it appears that it was admitted position that Tika Ram  Sons had a cash balance of Rs4000 only on 111957 and it did not have any overdraft facilities with any bank.
34 and 5 were answered in the negative.
Aggrieved by the said decision the revenue has come up in appeal.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
This question has been examined by the various High Courts.
But in such cases 127 merely books entries would not suffice.
The assessee must also have sufficient credit balance to enable him to make the gift.
Reference may also be made for this proposition to the decision of the Delhi High Court in New India Colour Co vs Commissioner of IncomeTax New Delhi The effect of the two aforesaid decisions of the learned fudges of the Delhi High Court indicates that in case there was not sufficient cash balance from out of which the amount gifted could be physically given to the donee more entries in the books of account in the form would not constitute delivery of possession over the gifted property to the donee and gift in such case will not be valid.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
He had large assets but these were represented by land buildings plant machinery and stock in trade.
Interest on the amounts was also credited in the accounts regularly for some time until a bank from which C had obtained an overdraft objected to such crediting of interest.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax Burma held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
Balance of the firm was only Rs 15.
Memo of gift recorded on stamp paper.
No acceptance was produced.
There the assessee was the karta of a Hindu undivided family.
There M the deceased was a 132 partner in a firm having a half share in the partnership.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
As the respondent is not appearing there will be no order as to costs.
