The Judgement of the Court was delivered by SC AGRAWAL J These petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution raise a common question as to the validity of sub para 10 of para 218 of the Import  Export Policy for the period April 1988 to March 1991.
While the said appeal and the other writ petition filed by the petitioners viz writ petition No 459 of 1988 herein were pending in the Bombay High Court this Court decided Civil Appeal No 1423 of 1984 Union of India vs Rajnikant Brothers and other connected matters by order dated April 18 1985 wherein it was observed that there was no requirement of diversification of exports as a condition for the grant of Export House Certificates in theImport Policy for the year 1978 1979 and the authorities were directed to issue necessary Export Certificates for the year 1978 79.
The writ petition and the appeal were decided by the Bombay High Court in accordance with the aforesaid decision of this Court in the case of Union of India vs Rajnikant Brothers supra and the High Court directed the authorities to grant Export House Certificates to the petitioners under the Import Policy 1978 79 within three months.
While construing the aforesaid direction contained in its order dated April 18 1985 in Rajnikant Brothers case supra this Court has held that the grantees of the Additional licences were not only prohibited from importing items which were excluded under the Export Policy 1978 79 but also from importing items excluded under the Import Policy prevailing at the time of import and that the word banned was intended to take in terms which were banned altogether as well as items which were banned for import by the holder of an Additional licence.
vs Union of India  Ors.
 In Union of India vs Ms Godrej Soaps Pvt Ltd  Anr  this Court construed the words whether canalised or otherwise  contained in the order dated April 18 1985 passed in Rajnikant Brothers case supra and it was observed that the Court would not know whether in the future certain canalised items could be imported directly by an Export House holding an Additional licence and that the possibility of a policy being framed in the future enabling an Export House holding an Additional licence to directly import items which are non canalised  and also item which are canalised  could not be ruled out and it was in this light that the Court can be said to have used the words whether canalised or otherwise in the order dated April 18 1985.
The matter was further clarified by this Court in DNavinchandra  Co Bombay  Anr.
vs Union of India  Ors.
These conditions had to be fulfilled.
The Court never did and could not have said that canalised items could be imported in any manner not permitted nor it could have given a go bye to canalisation policy.
Similarly the petitioners in 238 writ petition No 460 of 1988 herein were granted the Export House Certificate and an Additional licence dated August 31 1987.
petitions No 20021 22 of 1986 in civil appeal No 29241984 and the decision dated 1541987 in the writ petition No 1483 of 1987 filed by Ms D Naveen Chandra  Company.
3 The Additional licences issued prior to 141988 240 shall cease to be valid for import of items of raw materials components and spares which appeared in Parts I and II of List 8 Appendix 6 of Import Export Policy 1985 88 but are not now covered by Part I of List 8 Appendix 6 of this Policy.
7 Additional licences issued to Export HousesTrading Houses prior to 141988 will also be valid within their overall value for import of raw materials components consumables and spares appearing in Appendix 6 List 8 Part A of this Policy.
These licences will be valid for import of the items appearing in Part I of List 8 Appendix 6 of this Policy.
The grievance of the petitioners is confined to sub para 10 of para 218 which lays down that Additional licences issued to Export HousesTrading Houses prior to April 1 1988 or issued after April 1 1988 on exports made during 1986 87 or earlier periods will not be eligible for the flexibilities in the import of items of raw materials components and consumables covered by Appendices 3 and Part A and items of non OGL capital goods other than those covered by Appendices 1 Part A 8 available under the revised Policy.
Appendix 3 Part A relates to raw materials components consumables tools and spares other than Iron and Steel and Ferro Alloys and part B of the said Appendix deal with raw materials Iron and Steel and Ferro Alloys.
On behalf of the respondents it has been submitted by the learned Additional Solicitor General that there is no similarity between the petitioners who have been granted Additional licences on the basis of their exports made during the period 1977 78 in accordance with the Import Policy 1978 79 and the Export Houses who would be granted Additional licences on or after April 1 1988 under the Import  Export Policy 1988 91 inasmuch as the conditions of eligibility for grant of such licences and the value of licences under the Import  Export Policy 1978 79 were quite different from those contained in the Import  Export Policy 1988 91.
A close examination of the Import  Export Policy 1978 79 under which the petitioners have been granted the Additional licences and the Import  Export Policy 1988 91 shows that there is material difference between the conditions for grant of Additional licences under Import Policy 1978 79 and the conditions for grant of such licences under the Import Policy 1988 91 and it cannot be said that the petitioners who have been granted Additional licences under the Import  Export Policy 1978 79 and the Export  Import Policy 1988 91 are persons similarly circumstanced.
Under the Import  Export Policy 1978 79 there were two requirements for grant of Additional license one was the condition as to eligibility for registration as an Export House and grant of Export House Certificates and the other was the basis for issuing the Additional licences to Export House which had been granted Export House Certificates.
In Para 165 of the said Policy eligibility for grant of Export House Certificates was to be determined on the basis of the export actually made in the three year base period 1975 76 1976 77 and 1977 78 and in para 166 it was laid down that annual average fob value of exports in the prescribed base period of select products should not be less than Rs One crore or those of non select products Rs Five crores but in the case of a small scale unit or a consortium of small scale units the said minimum limit was reduced to Rs 25 lakhs for select products and Rs 2 crores for non select products.
In para 176 of the said Policy it was laid down that the value of the Additional licences to be granted for 1978 79 would be calculated at one third of the fob value of the export of select products made in 1977 78 and manufactured by the small scale and cottage industries 244 plus 5 of the fob value of other exports of select products made in the same year.
Under the Import  Export Policy 1988 91 provision with regard to eligibility for the grant of Export HouseTrading House Certificate is contained in para 212 which prescribed that the said eligibility shall be determined on the basis of the net foreign exchange NEF earnings from the export actually made in preceding three licensing years termed as the Base period .
The expression net foreign exchange earnings  has been defined as the total fob value of admissible exports minus the cif value of AdvanceImprest including Diamond ImprestDTC Imperest LicencesImport Export Pass Books excluding Special Imprest Import Export Pass Book if any issued and the REP licences issued or the eligibility thereto during the preceding three licensing years.
This indicates that under the Import  Export Policy 1988 91 for the purposeof grant of Export House Certificate as well as Additional licences the emphasis is on the net foreign exchange earnings made by the Export House which means that the value of the imports made by the Import House for the purpose of exporting goods is to be excluded from the fob value of exports.
The said 10 value can be 245 increased to 12 in cases where the Export House is able to achieve a minimum growth of 10 in terms of realisation in the previous year over the above the year preceding the same.
The petitioners who were granted Additional licences to the extent of 3333 of the fob value of the exports made them during the year 1977 78 cannot therefore be said to be persons similarly circumstanced as Export House who exported goods in the year 1987 88 and in subsequent years and obtain Additional licences for a much lesser value under the Import Policy 1988 91 on the basis of the net foreign exchange earnings.
The provisions conferring flexibility in the matter of imports contained in sub para 4 of para 215 of the Import  Export Policy 1988 91 are intended to give an incentive to Export Houses to increase the exports in a way as to enhance the net foreign exchange earnings of the country.
Shri HN Salve has however urged that in view of the decision of this Court in D Navinchandra  Co case supra the Export Houses who were granted Additional licences under the Import  Export Policy 1978 79 have to be treated at par with Export Houses who have been granted Additional licences under the Import  Export Policy for the subsequent years and since there has been relaxation in the matter of policy of canalisation of imports under sub para 4 of 246 para 215 in respect of Additional licences granted to Export Houses under the Import  Export Policy 1988 91 the petitioners are also entitled to a similar relaxation.
In D navinchandra  Co case supra this Court has not laid down that Export Houses like the petitioners who are granted Additional licences on the basis of the order Dated April 18 1985 are to be treated at par with Export Houses who are granted Additional licences under Import  Export Policy prevalent at the time of import.
it was found and it is common ground now that was wrong.
Therefore the wrong was undone.
This was a measure of restitution but the Court while doing so ensured that nothing illegal was done P1000 After referring to the decision in Raj Prakash Chemicals Ltd supra this Court has stressed The items had to pass to two tests firstly they should have been importable under the import policy 1978 79 and secondly they should also have been importable under the import policy 1985 88 in terms of the Order dated 18th April 1985 and if one may add in such terms in accordance with the import rules  whether canalised or not canalised P 1001 This Court has gone on to emphasise It must be emphasised that in the Order dated 18th April 1985 this Court did not do away with canalisation.
That 247 was not the issue before this Court.
The expression whether canalised or not canalised  was to include both.
We are of the opinion that this Court did not say that canalisation could be ignored.
That was not the issue.
High public policy it must be emphasised It involved in the scheme of canalisation Pages 1001 2 Shri Salve has placed reliance on the following observations of this Court in this case  Canalised items are those items which are ordinarily open to import only through a public sector agency.
They would be entitled to import items which were canalised or not if the import policy prevailing at the time of import permitted them to import items falling under such category.
 These observations only indicate that import of the canalised items under Additional licences issued to Export Houses like the petitioners would be permissible if the import policy prevailing at the time of import permits them to import such items.
In other words it would depend on the terms of the import policy prevailing at the time of import.
Since the basis for the grant of Additional licences which are entitled to this relaxation is different from the basis on which Additional licences were granted to the petitioners the petitioners cannot claim the benefit of the same relaxation and assail the validity of sub para 10 of para 218 of the Import  Export Policy 1988 91.
Shri Salve has invited our attention to the Import Licence dated November 21 1988 issued in favour of Ms Suraj Diamonds Industries Pvt.
Ltd wherein it is stated that this licence is valid for import of items as per para 215 of Import  Export Policy 1988 91 subject to restrictionsconditions laid down therein.
It has been urged that the petitioners as well as the said license namely Ms Suraj Diamonds Industries Pvt Ltd are persons similarly situate and whereas Ms Suraj Diamonds Industries Pvt Ltd have been granted an Additional licence whereunder it is permissible to import items as per para 215 of the Import  Export Policy 1988 91 the said facility has been denied to the petitioners and that the petitioners have been subjected to arbitrary and hostile discrimination.
In view of the fact that the licence issued in favour of Ms Suraj Diamonds Industries was issued under a mistake and the said mistake has been rectified it cannot be said that the petitioners have been subjected to hostile discrimination vis a vis other Export House similarly situate.
Before we conclude we may take note of the recent decision of this Court in B Vijay Kumar  Co etc.
vs Collector of Central Excise and Customs  The appellants therein had been granted Additional Import licence in pursuance of this Court s order dated April 18 1985 in Rajnikant Brothers case supra and had imported canalised items under the said licence.
The goods were not cleared by the customs authorities and the Collector of Customs imposed penalty and passed orders for confiscation of the goods and permitted the appellants to take delivery of good on payment of redemption fine.
In view of the special facts and circumstances of the case and specially having regard to the findings of the Appellate Tribunal that the appellants imported canalised items bona fide this Court set aside the orders of the Collector and the Appellate Tribunal with regard to confiscation of goods and imposition of redemption fine without dealing with the submissions of learned counsel for the parties with regard to the interpretation and the effect of the earlier judgments of this Court in Raj Prakash Chemicals case supra Indo Afghan case supra Godrej Soap case supra and D Navinchandra  Co case supra.
This decision is therefore a decision based on the facts of that particular case only.
As a result of the aforesaid discussion it must be held that the petitioners have failed to make out a case for interference by this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution.
As indicated earlier the licences issued to the petitioners were valid for a period of twelve months and the said period has expired during the pendency of these writ petitions.
Since the matter has been pending in this Court and the Additional licences issued to the petitioners have expired in the meanwhile we consider it appropriate that the period of validity of the said licences should be extended so that the petitioners can avail the same and are able to import the goods which can be so imported under the prevailing Import Policy.
Subject to the aforesaid observations the writ petitions are dismissed.
TNA Petitions dismissed.
