In C A 26058 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
This was not allowed by the Income tax Officer and on appeal this order was confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
The Commissioner has come up in appeal pursuant to special leave against both these judgments.
Indian Act.
The question for decision is as to how this proviso is to be construed.
263 there were six heads of income chargeable to income tax.
This section was introduced in 1922 before which under the Indian Act of 1918 a loss under one head of income could not be set off against income under another head the taxability of income arising from each head being separate.
But it was contended on behalf of the Revenue that the first proviso to section 241 of the Indian Act not only affected the generality of the main enactment but also introduced an addendum that where the profits of the business arose in what was British India in the case of the Indian Act or what was Travancore State in the case of the Travancore Act and the losses under the head business were sustained in an Indian State or in the latter case in any other Indian State or British India these losses could not by virtue of the proviso be deducted from profits made in British India or Travancore State as the case may be.
It has to operate in the same field and if the language of the main enactment is clear it cannot be used for the purpose of interpreting the main enactment or to exclude by implication what the enactment clearly says unless the words of the proviso are such that that is its necessary effect.
Vide also Corporation of The City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada 1.
It is significant that in sections 213 and 5 of the Indian Act of 1918 corresponding to sections 215 and 6 of the Indian Act of 1922 the word used was income  which in the latter Act was expanded into  income profits and gains .
Thus the mere use of the words loss of profits or gains to be set off against profits and gains would not be sufficient to restrict the scope of the proviso to the profits and losses arising under the head business in the two territories i e British India and the Indian States.
41950 5 269 argument does not take note of the definition of total income total world income  and chargeability of total income under section 3 or the provisions of section 4 where in the case of a resident total income  includes income profits and gains accruing within or without I British India.
But then it was said that as the profits or gains of business in an Indian State were exempted from payment of tax in British India business in section 10 must mean business in British India.
Appeals dismissed.
