Appeal No 52 of 1957.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated April 22 of 1953 of the Patna High Court in Appeal from Original Decree No 162 of 1946.
March 22.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal granted a lease of 96 bighas out of his 400 bighas to one D M Mathews.
On the very same day D M Mathews in his turn granted a lease to one Walji Kheta in respect of the said 96 bighas.
bThat the area encroached upon by the defendants be ascertained and the defendants be directed to vacate the same.
cThat a permanent injunction be issued against the defendants restraining them from encroaching upon the plaintiffs  coal land and cutting and removing coal therefrom.
dThat an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiffs  coal land as also the quantity of the coal rendered unworkable be ascertained and a decree for the value thereof by way of damages be granted to the plaintiffs against the defendants.
The defendants denied that they had encroached upon the plaintiff   coal land and stated that the suit was barred by limitation.
It is common case that the southern boundary of the appellants  leasehold is conterminous with the northern boundary of the respondents  lease hold.
On August 2 1894 Raja Jaimangal Singh executed the lease deed exhibit 1 in respect of 300 bighas in favour of the respondents  predecessor in interest.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
As the plan is a part of the lease deed it is clear from the plan that the northern boundary of the leasehold of Samanta is the said line.
On appeal the High Court accepted the finding.
But learned counsel for the appellant contended that the finding is vitiated by the burden of proof having been wrongly thrown on the appellant.
It reads  Period Time from Description of suit.
The question is on whom the burden to prove the said knowledge lies The answer will be clear if the article is read as follows A person having the right to the possession of a property wrongfully taken from him by another can file a suit to recover the said specific moveable property or for compensation therefore within three years from the date when lie first learns in whose possession it is.
503 onus of proof may shift to the defendant.
Emphasis is also laid upon the fact that there was quarry system of working in the mines and a contention is advanced that quarrying is done openly and therefore the respondents must have had knowledge of the said fact.
Appeal dismissed.
