Civil Appeal No 50 of 1961.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated March 10 1959 of the Industrial Tribunal.
Kozhikode in ID No 89 of 1958.
A V Viswanatha Sastri and T V R Tatachari for the appellant Janardan Sharma for the resondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by WANCHOOJ.
It is said that on June 21 1958 Sankaran came drunk to they mill and abused the Engineer the Secretary and others and threatened them with physical violence.
He was caught hold of by other workmen and taken outside.
In that order the appellant informed Sankaran that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if he was retained in the service of the appellant and therefore it considered that no inquiry should be held.
A dispute was then raised by the union which was referred to the industrial tribunal for adjudication by the Government of Kerala in October 1958.
The tribunal was of the view that this was a colourable exercise of the power given under r 18a to the appellant and therefore its action could not be upheld as a bona fide exercise of the power conferred.
The main contention of the appellant is that it is entitled under r 18 a of the Standing Orders to dispense with the service of any employee after complying with its terms.
or more as daily wages otherwise than under rule 21 he shall be given 14 days notice or be paid 12 days wages.
The claim thus put forward on behalf of the appellant is that it is entitled under r 18a of the Standing orders which is a term of contract between the appellant and its employees to dispense with the service of any employee at any time by just giving 14 days notice or paying 12 days wages.
It was of opinion that even in a case of this kind the requirement of bona fides is essential and if the terminataton of service is a colourable exercise of the power or as a result of victimisation or unfair labour praction the industrial tribunal would have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.
But the tribunal has pointed out that the employer did not attempt to do so before it.
It is enough to say that the position of government servants stands on an entirely different footing as compared to industrial employees.
The appellant failed to satisfy the tribunal when the matter came before it for adjudication that the exercise of the power in this case was bona fide and was not colourable.
Appeal dismissed.
