Appeal No 801 of 1963.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated September 2 1959 of the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
Respondent No 4 is the Deputy Commissioner Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments L9Sup.
Before this order could be executed and possession delivered to respondents 1 to 3 the appellants instituted the present suit.
Respondents 1 to 3 resisted this suit and contended that the properties in suit had not been granted to the predecessor of Pachai Kandai Udayavar as alleged by the appellants.
The alternative plea made by the appellants that they had acquired title to the properties by prescription was also upheld by the trial Judge.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants  claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession the lower appellate Court found that it was evident that from the very beginning Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
There was evidence to show that the properties originally granted had been resumed by the Collector but the learned Judge took the view that the said resumption was only of the melwaram or assessment and that since the lands had been granted in Inam to the deity and its matam their title to the lands remained unaffected by the resumption proceedings.
A 3 A 6 and A 12 show that the alienors purported to transfer the properties not as Poojaris or managers of a temple but in their individual character as owners of the said properties.
125 Mr Tatachari also argues that in applying article 144 we must assume that the possession of the alienees was adverse to the temple from the respective dates of the alienations when they were put in possession of the properties covered by the transactions in question.
It is well known that the law of limitation in regard to suits instituted to set aside unauthorised alienation of endowed property by a Shebait or a Mahant or a manager of a Hindu religious endowment was very uncertain prior to the decision of the Privy Council 1 Mr Justice B K Mukherjea on Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trust  II Edn.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
Article 134 covers suits brought with a view to recover possession of immovable property conveyed or bequeathed in trust or mortgaged and afterwards transferred by the trustee or mortgagee for a valuable consideration.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
127 and transferred the endowed property the sales were null and void in the absence of a custom allowing them and that the possession taken by the purchaser was adverse to the vendors and those claiming under them.
2 LR 37 IA 147.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
129 in violation of his duty of an interest in endowed lands which he has no authority as Shebait to make may possibly under some circumstances be good as against himself by way of estoppel but is not binding upon his successors.
 It is not easy to see why the successor s right to Challenge an unauthorised alienation made by his predecessor should be affected adversely if the alienation is made by his predecessor on the basis that the property belonged to him and not to the religious endowment.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
In our opinion all the facts which have been brought on the record in relation to this aspect of the matter clearly show not only that the alienor disposed of all the property and left the village  but also that for the last 25 years or so the management has been taken over by other persons who are acting as de facto managers of the temple.
A 3 A 6 and A 12 and restore that of the lower appellate Court.
