Appeal No 696 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 13 1963 of the Madras High Court in Writ Appeal No IO of 1962.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
The respondent thereafter moved the Madras High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the orders of the Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.
Ganapatia Pillai J who heard the petition dismissed it.
1 The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
2 In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may provide for c the assessment to tax under this Act of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed 664 The first question to be considered in this appeal is whether Rule 21 A is intra vires of the power of the State Government under sections 191 and 2 of the Act.
It is manifest that a person who purchases a business as a dealer  can be assessed to sales tax only in respect of his turnover and under the scheme of the charging provision of the Act the purchaser of the business has nothing to do with the sales effected by the seller of the business.
But there is no such provision in the Act for the period with which we are concerned in the present case.
The question is whether the State Government has authority under its rule making power under section 19 of the Act to create a legal fiction by which the transferee of the business is constituted as the dealer liable to pay the tax in respect of the turnover of the transferor.
On behalf of the appellants Mr Ram Reddy suggested that the State Government has power under section 191 and 192 c of the Act to frame the impugned rule.
Section 191 of the Act empowers the State Government to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Act but the section cannot be utilised to enlarge the scope of section 10 regarding recovery and payment of tax from some other person other than a dealer under the Act.
We also consider that the State Government has no authority under section 192c of the Act to enact the rule.
2  665 Whitney vs Commissioners of Inland Revenue that the liability to tax does not depend upon assessment.
It follows therefore that Rule 21 A is beyond the rule making power of the State Government either under section 191 or section 192c of the Act.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
 It was contended that under this section the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default is charged on the property of the person liable to pay the tax.
 This section was amended by section 8 of the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 which reads as follows 1 666 Substitution of new section for section 10 in Madras Act IX of 1939.
Payment and recovery of tax 1 The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments if any and within such time as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act  .
 In the present case the Act is not expressed to come into operation on any particular date but as it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8 1956 the Act came into operation on that date and not before.
