Appeal No 787 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 5 1961 of the Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree No 1012 of 1955.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
Sukumar Ghose for respondent No 1.
Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
In the plaint itself the first two defendants were described as thika tenants.
Fifth Additional 172 Court Alipore on November 23 1949.
The Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 was passed on October 21 1952 introducing various changes in the Act and substituting a new definition of a thika tenant.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
On remand the Subordinate Judge Seventh Court Alipore rejected the plea of the landlord that the appellant Gaffur could not be regarded as a thika tenant inter alia on the ground that he had sold his interest by a registered sale deed dated April 12 1949 to one Subasini.
On a consideration of the provisions of the Act and the Ordinance the Subordinate Judge held that the appellant Gaffur was not liable to ejectment in the absence of any grounds therefor in the notice to quit in accordance with section 3 of the Act as he was a thika tenant within the meaning of the Act as it was finally amended.
The landlord went up in appeal once more to the High Court.
On this occasion the main plank of the argument on behalf of the landlord was that with the omission of section 29 civil courts became unable to remit ejectment suits to the controller with the result that the Act as finally amended could not apply to pre Act suits and thika tenants could get no relief under the Act.
Section 3 Provided that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force no decree or order for the ejectment of a thika tenant shall be executed during the continuance in operation of the Ordinance.
section 3 provided that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any contract a thika tenant shall subject to the provisions of the Act be liable to ejectment from his holding on one or more of the specified grounds and not otherwise.
5 of section 2 the definition of a thika tenant or violation of a condition consistent with the Act by a breach of which he was under the terms of a contract between himself and his landlord liable to be ejected iii refusal to agree to pay rent at such enhanced rate as might be determined under section 25 iv requirement 174 of the land by the landlord for his own occupation or for the purpose of building on the land or otherwise developing the land except during any period limited by a registered lease under which the tenant might be holding v failure on the part of the holding for his own residential manufacturing or business purpose for more than six consecutive months omitting the priviso and vi on the expiry of a registered lease in favour of the tenant.
If the Court or Controller holds that the person is such a thika tenant.
182 We cannot speculate as to why the legislature thought fit to omit sections 28 and 29 from the Act of 1949.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
He was not right in his view that the grounds specified in section 3 could not be called in aid.
