The respondent and 49 other persons were charged with various offences alleged to have been committed by them in the course of their raid as an armed gang on a certain factory known as the Jessop Factory at Dum Dum and they were convicted and sentenced to varying terms of imprison ment by the Special Court to which the case was sent for trial by the Governor of West Bengal by a notification dated 26th January 1950 in exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 1 of the Act.
 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
The learned Chief Justice rejected the argument that the word cases in the sub section should in view of the title and preamble of the Act.
 Before considering whether section 51 infringes to any and what extent the constitutional prohibition under article 14 it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
As the very object of the Act was to provide for speedier trials by instituting a system of special courts with a simplified and shortened procedure it is reasonable to conclude that so far as the legislature was concerned its intention was that courts constituted under the Act and applying such procedure should deal only with cases requiring speedier trial and that accordingly the State Government should refer to such courts only cases of that description.
The object of the law we assume until the lower Court shall decide otherwise is single to keep up competition and the general language is to be restricted by the specific provi sions and to the particular end.
2  293 offences as there can of course be no trial of offences in the abstract and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature for a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
294 pledge of the protection of equal laws Yick Wo vs Hopkins 1 that is Jaws that operate alike on all persons under like circumstances.
It is the essence of a classification said Mr Justice Brewer in Atchison Topeka  Santa Fe R Co vs Matthews 3 that upon the class are cast duties and burdens different from those resting upon the general public.
An affirmative finding on the point may not howev er be decisive of the issue.
But there are other types of legislation such as for instance the Land Acquisition Act which do not rest on classification and no question of reasonable classification could fairly arise in respect of such 1   296 enactments.
For instance in Atchison Topeka  Santa Fe R Co vs Matthews1 it was said In that case Yick Wo s case 2 a municipal ordinance of San Francisco designed to prevent the Chinese from carrying on the laundry business was adjudged void.
 In the face of all these considerations it seems to me difficult to condemn section 5 1 as violative of article 14.
40 306 There is no doubt that the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance 1949 which was later replaced by the impugned Act West Bengal Special Courts Act X of 1950 to be herein after referred to as the Act was a valid Ordinance when it was promulgated on the 17th August 1949.
Sections 6 to 15 set out in details the procedure which the Special Court has to follow in the trial of cases referred to it.
Anwar Ali Sarkar who is the respondent in Appeal No 297 along with 49 other persons were the accused in what is known as Dum Dum Factory Raid case where crimes of the utmost bru tality were committed by an armed gang of men on the factory of Messrs Jessop and Company at Dum Dum.
 It is in substance modelled upon the equal pro tection clause occurring in the Fourteenth Amendment of the American Constitution with a further addition of the rule of equality before the law which is an established maxim of the English Constitution.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
All persons are not by nature attainment or circumstances equal and the varying needs of different classes of persons often require separate treatment and therefore the protecting clause has been construed as a guarantee against discrimi nation amongst equals only and not as taking away from the State the power to classify persons for the purpose of legislation.
It is urged by the learned AttorneyGeneral that this selection of cases must also be made in the light of the object of the Act as expressed in its preamble that is to say the State government can only select those cases which in their view require speedier trial.
Article 14 provides The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India Then follow articles 15 and 16 the former prohibiting discrimination on grounds of religion race caste sex place of birth or any of them and the latter providing for equality of opportunity in matters of public employment.
