iminal Appeal No112 of 1965.
O P Rana for respondent No 1.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
On October 11 1963 Mahabir accused made an application under section 85 of the UP Panchayat Raj Act 1947 to SDM Deoria to transfer the proceedings on the ground that the complainant Yashoda was father of Bunna Prasad Sarpanch of Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas.
On December 13 1963 a notice was issued to the five members of the Panchayat to assemble on December 25 1963 and hear the case.
 117 It is alleged on the side of the applicant Mahabir that immediately after the receipt of the telegram an application accompanied by an affidavit and the telegram of his counsel in the High Court was presented before the Nyaya Panchayat with the prayer to stay further proceedings but the Sarpanch refused to take it.
On December 23 1963 Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R Singh SDM Deoria alleging that writ petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.
But as the notice against Shri Srivastava has been discharged by the High Court we need not give any further details about his various orders On December 25 1963 the Nyaya Panchayat met and proceeded to hear the case.
The statements of the complainant and his witnesses Bhabhuti and Damri are recorded.
 Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad pairokar of Mahabir Burma Prasad the Sarpanch and Mahabir and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
Phagu Prasad.
According to him the Panchas did not tell Mahabir that his affidavit was not proper they however told him to get it verified in Tehsil and that it should be duly sealed.
It appeared to the High Court that the Sarpanch first wanted to avoid the petitioner s affidavit being brought on the record by declaring that it was not proper because it did not fully evidence the fact that the High Court had passed an order staying proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat The High Court further held that the Nyaya Panchas faithfully accepted the objections raised by the Sarpanch and dittoed him about the impropriety of the petitioner s affidavit and inadequacy of the evidence contained therein regarding the stay order alleged to have been.
In order to justify committal for breach of a prohibitive order it is not necessary that the order should have been served upon the party against whom it has been granted if it be proved that he had notice of the order aliunde as by telegram or newspaper report or otherwise and knew that it was intended to be enforced or if he consented to the order or if he was present in Court when the order Was pronounced or hen the motion was made although he left before the order was pronounced.
