PP Rao and R N Sachthey for the appellants.
The facts bearing on this question may now be stated Respondent 1 hereinafter referred to as the Federation is a Company registered under section 26 of the Indian Companies Act 1913.
c To secure organised action on all subjects mentioned above.
d To collect and disseminate statistical and other information and to make effort for the spread of commercial and economic knowledge.
1 To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
m To help in the Organisation of Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations in different commercial centres of the country.
z To take or otherwise acquire and hold shares in any other association or company having objects altogether or in part similar to those of the Federation.
zl To establish a Trust or Trusts andor appoint Trustees thereof from time to time and vest the funds or the surplus income or any property of the Federation in the Trustees who shall hold and deal with the funds surplus income or property in such manner as the Committee may decide.
Further the definition of commercial establishment is wider than that of shop.
It came up for consideration before this Court in Management of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry vs Their workman Shri R K Mittal1 After considering its Memorandum of Association Articles of Association and other material which was more or less the same as in the present case it was held by this Court that the activity of this Federation is in the nature of a business or trade.
In the alternative learned Counsel contends that even if this plea is allowed to be raised then also the primary activity of the Federation cannot by any stretch of reasoning be called a trade business of profession within the definition of commercial establishment given in the Act.
354 dends are declared no profits are shared or divided among the Individual members and no goods are sold or exchanged.
It takes up with the concerned authorities the specific difficulties experienced by the trade in the day today business and endeavours to attain for the traders and industrialists those material advantages by unified action which they may not be able to achieve in their individual capacity.
