Civil Appeal No 1231 of 1968.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 20th December 1962 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Civil Appeal No 151 of 1960.
B D Bal with A G Ratnaparkhi for the appellant.
V section Desai with M N Shroff for section P Nayar for respondent.
Although the origin of the Sansthan is dipped somewhat in antiquity and direct testimony was lacking it has never been disputed that Sakharam Maharaj constructed a temple in the year 1817 at Amalner and installed the aforesaid deity according to religious rites.
At the close of the enquiry the Assistant Charity Commissioner by his order of August 25 1956 held the Sansthan to be a public trust and ordered its registration as a public trust under the Act.
Mr Bal further contends that the High Court failed to consider all the material documents filed on behalf of the appellant except only exhibit 35 and that the conclusion was highly erroneous being contrary to the one that had been reached by the District Judge on appraisal of the entire documentary evidence.
Relying upon the above definitions Mr Bal submits that there is absolutely no evidence in this case about dedication to the public or public user of the temple as a matter of right.
The Sanad being an ancient Royal grant is a very important piece of evidence to show that although Sakharam Maharaj the founder of the temple had already been succeeded by Guru Govindbuwa and the latter by Balkrishnabuwa the land had been held in the year 1860 61 in the name of the Devasthan.
After him there was Krishna buwa and after him there was Balkrishna.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
It is further pointed out that while nominating Prahlad as Adhikari Balkrishnabuwa stated in the said document as follows You are entitled to the ownership of all the incomes that will come before the Deity Shri Samarth and during the Swari procession as well as the income of Inam Najrana and the income of movable and immovable property.
That ownership is of your own.
From the above the appellant contends that the Sansthan was a private property and it was also transferred to the Shishya Adhikari to maintain it as his own property.
Although it is stated in the document that Balkrishnabuwa was carrying on the Malaki he at the same time states with regard to the Sansthan thus  the same was entrusted to me by Shri Guru Maharaj  x x x x x I therefore thought that I should entrust the work of the Sansthan to you and have appointed you to the said Sansthan.
The Bhajans at Pandharpur performed by Maharaj are attended by the public.
PBR Appeal dismissed.
