Civil Appeal No 1744 of 1968.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 14 6 1967 of the Mysore High Court in Writ Petition No 44065.
Mrs Shyamala Pappu and Girish Chandra for the Appellant.
Narayana Nettar for Respondents 4 and 5 3 1338SCI76 828 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BEG J.
Therefore it was held that the writ petition was premature as the final list of officers on an integrated seniority list was still to be prepared after hearing objections.
The case now before us pertains to Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services of the Mysore State in which the petitioner was given in the final integration list a position to which he objected.
Apparently the petitioner whose date of birth is given as 28th June 1915 has retired.
We have however gone through his petition and the affidavit filed in its support where in paragraph 16 he states as fol lows The Mysore State Civil Service Integra tion Rules 1960 provide for filing objections only against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniority List and do not provide any provision for filing objections or appeal ing against the final Inter State Seniority List as per Annexure B .
 It is apparent that the petitioner re spondent was claiming relief against the final Inter State seniority list although he was given due opportunity to object to the provi sional list.
As already observed above the petitioner had ample opportunity to do that.
Hence the principle recognised in Shankariah s case supra was not applicable to such a case.
As the petitioner in the High Court who is the respondent before us was unrepresented Mrs Shymala Pappu appearing on behalf of Union of India very Conscientiously took us through Union of India  Anr.
PK Roy  Ors.
 1 from which learned Counsel thought the following observations could perhaps be cited on behalf of the petitioner respondent at p 202 it was argued by Mr Ashoke Sen that in regard to both these matters the respond ents have a right of representation and the final gradation list should have been pub lished after giving them further oppor tunity to make a representation.
All that is done is that certain principles are applied in the preparation of the list.
GR Prabhavalkar  Ors.
1 where it was held by this Court at p 2106 1 AIR 1973 Sc 2102 at 2106.
If that is established the decision of the authorities concerned will have to stand.
