270 of 1955.
DAS ACTG.
It may here be mentioned that the Indestro Eastern Ltd was also assessed to income tax at and for Rs 192000 and a recovery certificate was also issued by the Income tax Officer to the Additional Collector of Bombay.
A rule was issued by the High Court but eventually on the 24th August 1955 the High Court Chagla CJ and Desai J discharged the rule.
In the view we have taken about the merits of the petition it is not necessary for us to consider the question of its maintainability after the dismissal of the petition under article 226 or to make any pronouncement on this occasion on the scope and ambit of article 32 of the Constitution in that situation.
a Section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act which is impugned before us runs as follows 46.
Article 14 is invoked in two ways.
It is pointed out that the first part of section 462 provides that the Collector on receipt of a certificate from the Income tax Officer shall proceed to recover from the defaulting assessee the amount specified therein as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
A Collector in the State of Madras in recovering the certified amount of income tax has to proceed under section 48 of the Madras Revenue Recovery Act 1864 Madras Act II of 1864.
All that it says is that the certified amount of income tax is to be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue and there its operation ends.
897 If the State laws are discriminatory that vice cannot be imputed to section 462.
The State laws prescribe the procedure for the recovery of arrears of land revenue only and they are not in terms and by themselves concerned at all with the recovery of income tax demand.
114 900 of public demand prevailing in that State Here the defaulters are classified on a territorial or geographical basis and this basis of classification has precisely the same correlation to the object of the Indian Income tax Act as it has to the object of the different Public Demands Recovery Acts.
The objects of the two Acts in this behalf are in pari materia and the same considerations must apply to both.
If this is right when a question of imposition is concerned it cannot be wrong when the matter is one of recovery.
A cursory perusal of the two sections will show at once that the procedure prescribed by section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of arrears of land revenue was harsher and more drastic than the procedure laid down in section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code 1879 in that a defaulter residing in the City of Bombay could be kept in detention for a day for every rupee of the arrears which might considerably exceed the maximum period of six months which is the period 904 limited by the Code of Civil Procedure for the detention of a judgment debtor in civil jail.
In Assam there can be no imprisonment at all.
