Appeal No 205 of 1954.
On appeal from the judgment and order dated the 978 13th April 1954 of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No 49 of 1954 arising out of the order dated the 31st day of March 1954 of the said High Court exercising its Ordinary Original Jurisdiction in Misc.
K T Desai P N Bhagwati Rameshwar Nath and Rajinder Narain for the appellants.
C K Daphtary Solicitor General of India Porus A Mehta and B H Dhebar with him for the respondent.
November 10.
This appeal raises a question as to the powers of a Custodian of Evacuee Property to cancel a lease granted by him under section 12 of the XXXI of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act.
Secondly there was a sale of the stock of raw materials unsold finished goods spare parts cars trucks and other movables which were in the mills and the factory with elaborate provisions for the determination and payment of the price therefor in 979 due course.
And thirdly there was an agreement to sell the mills and the factory to the appellants in certain events and subject to certain conditions.
On 13 2 1954 the appellants appeared before the respondent and contended that he had no auth ority to issue the notice in question under section 12 and that it was therefore illegal.
Apprehending that the lease might be cancelled and that they might be evicted the appellants filed on 16 2 1954 the application out of which the present appeal arises for a writ of certiorari for quashing the notice Exhibit C and for a writ of prohibition restraining the respondent from taking any further action pursuant thereto.
In support of the petition the appellants urged that section 12 under which the respondent purported to act authorised the cancellation of only leases granted by the evacuee and not by the Custodian himself and that no directions could be given under section 10 as it applied only to properties of the evacuee and that by reason of the sale the movables in question had become the property of the appel 124 980 lants.
On the second question he held that section 10 applied only to properties of the evacuee and that the movables in respect of which directions were given ceased to be the property of the evacuee by reason of the sale in favour of the appellants and that in consequence the directions with reference to them were unauthorised.
By their judgment dated 13 4 1954 they held that on the plain language of section 12 it would apply whenever there was a lease and that lease was in respect of property belonging to the evacuee that there was no warrant for imposing a further limitation on that section that that lease should also have been granted by the evacuee and that accordingly the Custodian had power to issue the notice Exhibit C for cancelling the lease.
Against this judgment the appellants have preferred this appeal on a certificate granted by the High Court under article 1331 b and the only point that arises for determination therein is as to whether the Custodian has the power under section 12 to 981 cancel a lease granted by himself and not by the evacuee.
In their petition under article 226 it was the validity of the notice.
