It will be easier with the help of the following pedigree to understand the point involved in this appeal Khandappa Sangappa Magdum Hirabai Plaintiff Gurupad Biyawwa Bhagirathibai Dhundubai Shivapad Deft 1 Deft 3 Deft.
41 Deft 5 Deft 2 Khandappa died on June 27 1960 leaving him surviving his wife Hirabai who is the plaintiff two sons Gurupad and Shivapad who are defendants 1 and 2 respectively and three daughters defendants 3 to 5.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
2 765 shall devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with this Act  Provided that if the deceased had left him surviving a female relative specified in class I of the Schedule or a male relative specified in that class who claims through such a female relative the interest of the deceased in the Mitakshara coparcenary property shall devolve by testamentary or intestate succession as the case may be under this Act and not by survivorship.
Explanation 2.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
see Mulla s Hindu Law Fourteenth Edition page 403 para 315.
In a partition between Khandappa and his two sons there would be four sharers in the coparcenary property the fourth being Khandappa s wife the plaintiff.
For by doing that alone can one determine the extent of the claimant s share.
Explanation 1 to section 6 resorts to the simple expedient undoubtedly fictional that the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of that property had taken place immediately before his death.
All the consequences which flow from a real partition have to be logically worked out which means that the share of the heirs must be ascertained on the basis that they bad separated from one another and had received a share in the partition which had taken place during the life time of the deceased.
1937 speaking broadly conferred upon the Hindu widow the right to a share in the joint family property as also a right to demand partition like any male member of the family.
By restricting the operation of the fiction created by Explanation I in the manner suggested by the appellant we shall be taking a retrograde step putting back as it were the clock of social reform which has enabled the Hindu Woman to acquire an equal status with males in matters of property.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
2 AIR 1974 Guj.
3 AIR 1967 Orissa 194.
