M C Setalvad Attorney General for India B Sen and R H Dhebar for the respondent.
April 24.
He was in the Indian Air Force as an emergency Commissioned Officer between 1943 to 1948 and thereafter on extension for another four years until he attained the age of 55.
It appears that he was also interested in journalism and in public affairs.
Whereas the Government of Bombay is satisfied with respect to the person known as Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay that with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the relations of India with the Portuguese Government and to the Security of India it is necessary to make the following Order Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub clause 1 of clause a of sub section 1 of section 3 of the Act IV of 1950 the Government of Bombay is pleased to direct that Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay be detained.
By Order and in the name of the Governor of Bombay.
1The order of detention was mala fide.
The grounds of detention are vague.
385 4The claim of State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest is unsustainable and in any case mala fide.
The above high handed action of the police by way of search and seizure was the subject matter of challenge by the appellant by means of a writ application in the High Court in which the police officers concerned filed affidavits virtually admitting the appellant s allegations relating to seizure of papers etc.
2 When one Joaquim Carlos a Portuguese soldier 386 attached to Goan forces was arrested on a charge of entering Indian territory without the requisite authority the appellant rendered professional assistance to him and obtained an order of release on bail from the Chief Presidency Magistrate Bombay which was foiled by the police by removing him away to Sawantwadi before the requisite sureties could be obtained at Bombay.
But on appeal filed by the appellant before the Sessions Judge the conviction was set aside and retrial ordered.
These events happened between February to April 1955.
3Between April 1955 to June 1955 there occurred certain incidents which were inspired and instigated by the members of the Goan Action Committee who were agitating against Portuguese hold over Goa.
The appellant s counsel strongly urged that the bona fides of the detaining authority is to be judged with reference to the above background of events and that viewed in that light the vagueness of the grounds and the belated claim of privilege under article 226 of the Constitution strengthen his contention.
2If you wish to make a representation against the order under which you are detained you should address it to the Government of Bombay and forward it through the Superintendent Arthur Road Prison Bombay.
3He is carrying on these activities with the object of causing further deterioration in the relations between the Portuguese Government and the Indian Government over the question of the Goan National Movement.
Assuming however that the grounds furnished in this case are open to the challenge of vagueness the further question which arises is whether the validity of the order of detention can be sustained by reason of the claim in public interest of non disclosure of facts made by the Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay by means of his affidavit filed in the High Court.
