1073 1100 1117 19 1229 95 142 1554 1746 2140 2155 2271 2396 2459.
1198 1217 1302 12 1314 15 1566 1641 1140 70 2360 95 1643 17252272 232921522332233924913486 89 2498 2521 2522 533 742611 2638 and 2531 of 1983.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Writ Petition Nos 42184571 and 5266 5280 of 1983 Under article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Transfer Case Nos 44 339 of 1983 KK Venugopal SS Ray PP Rao VM Tarkuade and R K Garg V Jogayya Sharma MP Rao Sudarsh Menon T VS N Churi G Narasimhulu A Subba Rao MKD Namboodiry HS Guru Raj Rao section Markandeya ATM Sampath DK Garg Nikhil Chandra and A K Panda for the Petitioners.
GN Rao for the State.
By these notifications every Government servant whether ministerial or non ministerial but not belonging to the last Grade Service who had already attained the age of 55 years was to retire from service with effect from February 28 1983.
A counter affidavit was filed on behalf of the State of Andhra Pradesh by Shri R Parthasarathy Joint Secretary in the Finance Department of the State at the stage of admission of the writ petitions.
By the counter affidavit the Government of Andhra Pradesh denied that any of the provisions of the Constitution were violated by the impugned decision to reduce the age of retirement.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
588 The affidavit is sworn by Shri AK Sharma Deputy Secretary to Government of Andhra Pradesh.
Finance and Planning.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Clause 103 provides that every workman belonging to the Last Grade Service or employed on a monthly rate of pay in any service notified as Inferior shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
By clause 15 All Rules and Regulations made under the proviso to Article 309 or continued under Article 3 l 3 of the Constitution or made under any other law for the time being in force governing the recruitment and conditions of service of the Government employees continue to be in force in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance provides that no amendment to the Fundamental Rules shall be deemed to be invalid merely by reason of the fact that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules laid down that the said rules shall not be modified or replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance declares that every amendment made before or after the commencement of the Ordinance to the Fundamental Rules and the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules shall be and shall be always deemed to have applied to all Government employees whether appointed before or after the amendment.
Clause 18 of the Ordinance provides by sub clause i that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules shall be and shall be deemed always to have been omitted.
The age of retirement was previously governed by these two Rules.
The arguments advanced before us fall under distinct heads learned counsel having shared their burden equitably.
Shri P P Rao also challenges the retrospective deletion of the proviso to Rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules as being arbitrary.
This is the broad outline of the petitioners  case.
Barring a few services in a few parts of the world as for example the American Supreme Court the terms and conditions of every public service provide for an age of retirement.
A common scheme of general application governing superannuation has therefore to be evolved in the light of experience regarding performance levels of employees the need to provide employment opportunities to the younger sections of society and the need to open up promotional opportunities to employees at the lower levels early in their career.
Inevitably the public administrator has to counter balance conflicting claims while determining the age of superannua 591 tion.
Where an act is arbitrary it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Article 14l But while resolving the validity of policy issues like the age of retirement it is not proper to put the conflicting claims in a sensitive judicial scale and decide the issue by finding out which way the balance tilts.
That is an exercise which the administrator and the legislature have to undertake.
As stated in The Supreme Court And The Judicial Function 2 Judicial self restraint is itself one of the factors to be added to the balancing process carrying more or less weight as the circumstances seem to require.
592 lative competence or on the legislative power to pass laws which bear on fundamental rights.
Now when their turn for promotion has come at about the age of 55 they have been superannuated d The theory that reduction in the age of retirement provides employment opportunities to educated youths is fallacious.
Even otherwise not more than one per cent of the unemployed educated youths are likely to get employment as a result of the reduction in the age of retirement from 58 to 55.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the of the Commission cover the review of the existing retirement benefits  the reference would naturally include the age of retirement.
 This was an erroneous and unwarranted reading of the terms of reference.
A review of retirement benefits would undoubtedly cover the examination of the rules or schemes relating to pension provident fund gratuity encasement of leave etc but it cannot include the power to examine the question as regards the fixation of the age of retirement.
As regards Shri Venugopal s argument at b above the fact that the decision to reduce the age of retirement from 58 to 55 was taken by she State Government within one month of the assumption of office by it cannot justify the conclusion that lt the decision is arbitrary because it is unscientific in the sense that it is not backed by due investigation or by compilation of relevant data on the subject.
The reasonableness of a decision in any jurisdiction does not depend upon the time which it takes.
A delayed decision of the executive can also be had as offending against the provisions of the Constitution and it can be no defense to the charge of unconstitutionality that the decision was taken after the lapse of a long time.
Conversely decisions which are taken promptly cannot be assumed to be bad because they are taken promptly.
Every decision has to examined on its own merits in order to determine whether it is arbitrary or unreasonable.
Besides we have to consider the validity of a law regulating the age of retirement.
Both can fall within the constraints of the Constitution and neither the one nor the other can be considered to be arbitrary or unreasonable.
What was even of greater relevance the Commission found that there was improvement in the expectancy of life in the fifties that is to say amongst people in the age group of 50 to 60.
 The Commission then adverted to the prevailing ages of retirement in foreign countries and reiterated that whether we go by our own vital statistics or by the age of retirement prevalent in other countries there was a clear case for raising the age of superannuation substantially above 55 years.
After talking into account all the relevant considerations including the fact that most Government servants themselves do not wish to continue in service until they are worn out and have one foot in the grave the Commission summed up its findings by saying that there was much in favour of and very little against raising the age of superannuation.
The Commission recommended that the age of superannuation should be 58 for all classes of public servants including those for whom the retirement age then was 60.
After stating that the Krishnaswamy Commission was appointed on November 3 1977 for the sole purpose of 603 examining the question of  retirement benefits and that the question of retirement age was not included in its terms of reference the White Paper says that although the Government had accepted the recommendations of the Commission almost in their entirety it did not accept its recommendation that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 years.
Consequently the resultant vacancies at the direct recruitment level which would have arisen in the chain of appointments that would follow each retirement were also blocked for 3 years continuously thereby denying the promotion opportunities to inservice personnel and employment opportunities for the unemployed causing a great deal of frustration all round.
Besides experienced deserving inservice personnel whose legitimate aspirations for promotion were thwarted could also now look for this much awaited promotion.
Government were thus able to create promotional avenues to serving employees at various levels and create opportunities for appointment against about 18000 posts in Government Panchayat Raj and aided educational institutions alone not to speak of the opportunities that were created in the various Corporations etc owned or controlled by Government.
 604 The White Paper explains that in order to ensure that the employees who had retired by the end of February 1983 should get their pensionary benefits without delay the Government had constituted a special Pension cell in the Finance Department by a notification dated February 16 1983.
Either the one or the other of these two stages is regarded generally as acceptable depending upon the employment policy of the Government of the day.
But such is not the case here.
Care must also be taken to ensure that the statistics are not perverted to serve a malevolent purpose 605 Shri VM Tarkunde who appears for some of the petitioners A limited his argument to the contention that arbitrary fixation of retirement age amounts to removal from service and is therefore violative of Article 311 2 of the Constitution This argument has to be rejected because of our conclusion that the reduction of the age of retirement from 58 to 55 in the instant case is not hit by Article 14 or Article 16 since it is not arbitrary or unreasonable in the circumstances of the case.
But apart from this position we find it difficult to appreciate how the retirement of an employee in accordance with a law or rules regulating his conditions of service can amount to his removal from service.
See Satish Chandra vs Union of India1 Shyam Lal vs State of U P1 State of Bombay vs Saubhagchand M Doshi3 Purshottam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India4 and P Balakotiah vs Union of India5.
Besides the point made by Shri Tarkunde is concluded by a Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Bishun Narain Misra vs State of Uttar Pradesh 6 In that case the Government of Uttar Pradesh and raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years by a Notification dated November 27 1957 but reduced it again to 55 years by a Notification dated May 25 1961.
3  4  5 1958 SCR1052.
See page 696 of the Report.
2 119821 SCR 947 at 964 967.
Even assuming that the executive in a given case has an ulterior motive in moving a legislation that motive cannot render the passing of the law mala fide.
See BS Vaderu vs Union of India1 Raj Kumar vs Union of India2.
For reasons aforesaid we reject those contentions and dismiss these Writ Petitions.
1   582 585.
