1264 6771 etc.
The challenge to the other provisions of the Act at the instance of persons engaged in gold trade ie manufacturers shroffs and dealers in gold was rejected by the High Court.
 Incidentally the High Court also proceeded to draw analogy from the reasoning adopted by this Court in its decision in Harakchand Ratanchand Banthias vs Asst.
28 in the manner done and in our view the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court while dealing with unamended sec.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
 In Harakchand Banthria s case supra this Court has further pointed out that even though import of gold into India had been banned considerable quantities of contraband gold were finding their way into the country through illegal channels affecting the national economy and hampering the country s economic stability and progress that the Customs Department was not in a position to effectively combat the smuggling over the long borders and coast line that therefore anti smuggling measures had to be supplemented by a detailed system of control over internal transactions and that the Gold Control Act 1968 was passed for this purpose.
Moreover regard must be had to be the nature of the restrictions imposed by the Section.
Even the restriction in the case of a third person in carrying on business as a money lender banker or any other business in the same premises is not absolute in as much as the Administrator can authorise the third person to carry on the business in the licensed premises of the dealer and while implementing such limited restrictions or granting relief against the same he will be guided by the policy and purposes of the Act and by the prime consideration that circumvention of the other provisions of the Act shall not be premitted.
276 in several of its clauses referred to certain concepts which Administrator was required to take into account and these concepts were regarded as indefinite uncertain and vague.
214 Guj.
276 this Court struck down sec.
28 by reference to which the Administrator is required to exercise his power.
28 of the Act valid.
