Civil Appeal No 1377 of 1982.
From the Judgment and Order dated 17111980 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Appeal No 251 of 1977.
FR Nariman EK Jose PH Parekh and Miss Sunita Sharma for the Appellant.
It further goes on to state that the licensee shall not under any circumstances be allowed to use the premises for the residential purposes or any other purpose save and except specified therein.
It further stipulated that the licensee should deposit a sum of Rs2500 for the due performance of the terms and conditions of the agreement.
In setting out the terms of the agreement the emphasis has been supplied to the relevant clauses to highlight the points in controversy.
It is well to refer to section 41 of the said Act which is in Chapter VII and deals with summons against person occupying property without leave and provides that when any person has had possession of any immovable property situate within the local limits of the Small Cause Court s jurisdiction and of which the annual value at rack rent did not exceed two 1062 thousand rupees as the tenant or by permission of another person or of some person through whom such other person claims and such tenancy or permission has been determined or withdrawn then a suit can be filed by a summons against the occupant calling upon him to show cause therein.
Before the Judge Court of Small Causes the points of defences were filed in which the appellant had stated that the application was not maintainable and the plaintiff was himself occupying the premises under one Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain who himself had adopted ejectment proceedings against the respondent.
The submission was that there was sub tenancy by the respondent in favour of the appellant as a monthly tenant of the business with the articles and machinery belonging to the appellant and not to the respondent.
The learned Judge recorded further that it was practice in the Court of Small Causes Bombay of using the expression 1063 BC.
In July 1967 the appellants 1064 filed an application for eviction under section 41 of the .
It was observed that the finding of the High Court that the respondent was in occupation of the premises under a subsisting licence was wholly wrong and suffered from serious infirmities of law and fact and deserved to be set aside.
The High Court affirmed the decision of this Court and upheld the order of the Court of Small Causes and ordered eviction.
Clause 12 is significant which gave to the licensor the right to enter upon the premises and inspect the same at any time.
In the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail as we find no ground to interfere with the decision of the High Court.
