Civil Appeal No 1709 of 1988.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar TNo.
 After a detailed enquiry against the respondent and t wo others the Inquiry Officer found all the three guilty of the charge framed against each of them.
During the pendency of the writ petition a Bench of the Central Tribunal at Chandigarh was constitut ed under the Administrative Tribunal Act 1985.
It provides power to Parliament to enact law for establishme nt of Administrative Tribunals for adjudication of disput es with regard to service matters.
The law to be enact ed by Parliament may also cover persons appointed in the loc al or other authority or of any corporation owned or controll ed by the Government.
22 requires the Tribunal to deci de every application made to it as expeditiously as possibl e Ordinarily the Tribunal shall decide every application on a perusal of documents and written representations and aft er heating such oral arguments as may be advanced.
14 15 16 27 28 and 29 it becomes apparent that in the case of proceedings transferr ed to the Tribunal from a civil court or High Court the Trib u nal has the jurisdiction to exercise all the powers whi ch the civil court could in a suit or the High Court in a wr it proceeding could have respectively exercised.
On the other hand an order bas ed on several grounds some of which are found to be non exis t ent or irrelevant can be sustained if the court is sati s fied that the authority would have passed the order on t he basis of the other relevant and existing grounds and t he exclusion of the irrelevant or non existent grounds cou ld not have affected the ultimate opinion or decision.
Where the court finds that the penalty i m posed by the impugned order is arbitrary or grossly exce s sive or out of all proportion to the offence committed or not warranted by the facts and circumstances of the case or the requirements of that particular government service t he court will also strike down the impugned order.
He was found guilty of t he charge framed against him.
Consequently the SLP of the respon d ent is dismissed.
