Another show cause notice as to why value of the drums should not be included in the assessable value of the goods was issued to the appellant on the 5th April 1983 pertaining to Gate Pass No 773 whereunder the appellant had cleared 24 KI of fusel oil in drums supplied by the buyer.
On the 11th August 1983 two orders were passed by the Assist ant Collector one in relation to each of the aforesaid show cause notices.
Collector.
Aggrieved therefrom the appellant has come up in these appeals to this Court.
The said drums were sup plied by the customers for the purpose of filling the fusel oilStyrene Monomer.
The Asstt.
In AK Roy s case supra it was held by this Court that though in that case that the fact that the assessee had effected sales to whole sale dealers only to the extent of 5 to 10 of its produc tion and that 90 95 of its production were only retail sales would not affect the question of determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods with reference to its value in the wholesale market.
Explanation.
For the purposes of this sub clause the amount of the duty of excise payable on any excisable goods shall be the sum total of a the effective duty of excise payable on such goods under this Act and b the aggregate of the effective duties of excise payable under other Central Acts if any providing for the levy of duties of excise on such goods  and the effective duty of excise on such goods under each Act referred to in clause a or clause b shall be i in a case where a notification or order providing for any exemption not being an exemption for giving credit with respect to for reduction or duty of excise under such Act on such goods equal to any duty of excise under such Act or the additional duty under Section 3 of the 51 of 1975 already paid on the raw material or component parts used in the production or manufacture of such goods from the duty of excise under such Act is for the time being in force the duty of excise computed with refer ence to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods as reduced so as to give full and complete effect to such exemption and ii in any other case the duty of excise computed with reference to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods.
In this connection it is necessary to refer to the observations of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd supra.
Furthermore no cost was in fact incurred by the assessee.
There was no evidence that there was any necessity of pack ing or putting these in drums prior to their sale.
