Provided that i the holder of a Parwana granted under these rules shall pay royalty at the rate of fifty percent of the rate of royalty specified in the said schedule.
ii no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year.
iv Royalty shall be recoverable in whole rupees fraction fifty paise and above to be rounded upwards to a whole rupee and fraction below fifty paise shall be ignored and fixing the royalty payable by the lessees in respect of minor minerals known as Black Trap and Hard Murrum at Rs7 per metric tonne by amending schedule of the Rules which was being levied at Rs 4 till the date of the said amendment.
Clause e of the said section defines minor minerals  as building stones gravel ordinary clay ordinary sand other than sand used for prescribed purposes and any other mineral which the Central Government may.
It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
1 The State Government may by notifi cation in the Official Gazette make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected therewith.
2 Until rules are made under sub section 1 my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
 It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
The rule also provides that the holder of a Parwana granted under the Rules shall pay royalty at the rate of 50 per cent of the rate of royalty specified in the said Sched ule and that no royalty shall be charged from Nimbhadas of village Potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year.
Having regard to the depreci ation in the value of 413 the rupee and the increase in the cost of  administration of the State which is ever increasing as a welfare State we cannot say that Rs7 is an unreasonably high rate.
Whoever is given an exclusive right to exploit a mine will have to pay some amount by way of return to the Govern ment of India as authorised by entry 50 of List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution.
Rule 33 B of the Rules reads thus 33B Grant of quarrying Parwana On an application made to the competent officer he may grant a quarrying Parwana to extract and remove from the specified area within his jurisdiction the minor mineral from a plot not exceeding 2000 square meters as may be specified by the competent officer.
The compe tent officer may grant such Parwana in the following priorities a Individual families to Khanias belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes who do physical work I of excavating minor mineral in the area applied for 415 b Individual families of Khanias  who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in the area applied for.
