1.
Counsel state that the facts in all these appeals are identical and that the only facts neces sary or atleast on record before us on the basis of which the issue us is to be decided are these Each of the appellants petitioners hereinafter referred to compendi ously as assessees  is a registered dealer in the State of Haryana.
The writ petitions have been filed directly in this Court in view of a learned single Judge of the High Court having decided the issue against the assessees as early as 2511.
c Act 1 of 1990 has amended the above Explanation retrospectively to say that the words but the purchase value of the goods liable to tax under section 9 or section 24 shall be included shall be omitted and shall be deemed always to have been omitted with effect from 275.
p of section 2.
 348 111.
2 Every dealer to whom sub section 1 does not apply shall subject to other provisions of this Act be liable to pay tax under this Act on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Provided further that  .
b section 6 was amended by Act I of 1990 to read as follows with retrospective effect from 275.
349 Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B 2 Every dealer to whom sub section 1 does not apply shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum.
Amendment of section 9 of Haryana Act 20 of 1973 For clauses b and bb of sub section 1 of section 9 of the principal Act the following clause shall be substituted namely b purchases goods other than those specified in Schedule B from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or dispatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of subsection 1 of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act 1956or.
According to the Export Control Orders exports of certain goods can be made only by specified agencies such as the State Trading Corporation.
He submitted that the argument that to levy the tax imposed by section 91 in cases covered by section 53 but not section 51 of the CST Act would violate Article 286 of the Constitution.
It provided that only purchases of declared goods goods speci fied in 365 Schedule C and goods falling under section 9 would be part of the turnover .
