C No 677 of 1988.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution the petitioners have questioned the con stitutional validity of Section 5 of the 12 of 1919 hereinafter called the Act .
It was further contended that the restriction imposed on possession for sale and sale were not reasonable restrictions.
The object of the enactment is to regulate the posses sion for sale and the sale whether wholesale or retail of poisons and the importation of the same.
In other words it is intended to control over the traffic in poisons.
and not all solubles.
 According to them therefore the substance manufactured by them would not come within the amended Rules.
Though in the beginning the petitioners were contending that in substance manufactured by them did not come within Rule 2x2 and there were some correspondence in this regard when the competent authority held that the substance manufactured by the petitioners would come within the definition of thinner  as contained in Rule 2x2 of the Rules the petitioners did not question the finding on any material.
Before us also they had not placed any materi al to show that the finding was wrong or that the substance would not come within Rule 2x2.
Later when Delhi Poisons Rules 1926 were made in exercise of the powers under the Act those list of substances were included in the list enumerated in Rule 2 thereof.
Presumption as to specified poisons Any substance specified as a poison in a rule made or notification issued under this Act shall be deemed to be a poison for the purpose of this Act.
 It was a law in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and as such continued in force.
223 That Section enables the State Government to make Rules generally to carry out the purposes and objects of the Act.
Rules were amended in 1973 and duly notified as required by the Act.
It is not all poisonous substances that are brought within the regula tion under the Act.
It is those substances which the Govern ment consider its possession for sale or sale to be regulat ed in the interest of health and safety of the society.
Substances harmless in themselves might become poison by the time or manner of their adminis tration.
A substance may be a deadly poison or a valuable medicine according to how and how much is taken.
It states that the State Government may by rule regulate the posses sion of any specified poison in any local area in which the use of such poison for the purpose of committing murder or mischief by poisoning cattle appears to it to be of such frequent occurrence as to render restriction on the posses sion thereof desirable.
Any substance which is used for purposes mentioned therein can definitely be declared as poison.
If the Government thought in the circumstances that the posses sion or sale of the same is to be regulated it could not be said that they have no power to regulate.
Section 2 224 also enables the Government by Rule to regulate the posses sion for sale and the sale of the specified poison.
Every such box almirah room or building and every receptacle shall be marked with the word poison  in red charac ters both English and vernacular and in the case of receptacles containing separate poison  with the name of such poison .
ii All poisons  mentioned in clause x of rule 2 shall be kept in a room or building according to quantity maintained which shall be secured by lock and key in a separate receptacle of glass metal and earthenware etc.
Every such room building and every such receptacle shall be marked with the word poison  in red character both English and vernacular with the name of the poison .
 We are not impressed with the argument that any require ment in this Rule is unreasonable or offends the petition ers  right to carry on any trade or business.
A law in such circumstance can regulate the trade.
It is also not necessary that the same substance should be declared as poison for the entire country.
