Appeal No 1367 of 1980.
BD Sharma for the Respondents.
The matter was taken to the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan by a revision application and the Board by its order dated 14th April 1975 directed that the ceiling area for Raghubir Singh may be determined according to the old law ie Act of 1955 and not according to the new law ie Rajasthan Imposition of Ceiling on Agricultural Holding Act 1973 hereinafter referred to as the Act of 1973.
Aggrieved by the order of the Sub Divisional Officer Raghubir Singh filed appeal before the Revenue Appellate Authority Bikaner who by his order dated 6th September 1976 dismissed the same and upheld the order of the Sub Divisional Officer.
The Board went on to hold that there is no provision for separate units in Chapter III B of the Act of 1955.
Before the Division Bench of the High Court in the writ petitions it was urged on behalf of Raghubir Singh that no appeal having been filed by the State from the order the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May 1976 the said order became final and the Board of Revenue had no jurisdiction to set aside that part of the Sub Divisional Officer s order which had gone against the State and in his favour.
It was submitted that the power of general superintendence and control over all revenue courts vested in the Board could not be exercised to the detriment of the 726 writ petitioners much less by way of suo motu exercise of powers.
 The contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that the section confers executive powers of superintendence and control on the Board and it does not vest any power of superintendence on the Board on judicial side.
For this purpose he relied or the decision of the Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court reported as Karan Singh vs Board of Revenue Rajasthan.
The Division 727 Bench in that case was concerned with the interpretation of Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is not subject to the other provisions of the Act.
It is both administrative as well as judicial powers.
If the subordinate court disregards any specific provision of law and does something illegal it is open to the Board of Revenue to interfere and set the matter right.
A similar question arose before the Rajasthan High Court in Kana and others vs.
 These words have been consistently interpreted to mean that the High Court had power in appropriate cases to interfere with the judicial orders of the courts.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is similar to Section 107 of the Government of India Act 1915 and there is no section like sub section 2 of Section 224 of the Government of India Act of 1935 in the Act of 1955.
It is clear from the judgment under appeal that the Board had by its order dated 14th April 1975 directed that the ceiling area may be determined according to old law ie Act of 1955 and it spite of it the Sub Divisional Officer committed the grave illegality on not merely ignoring the law but also ignoring the directions of the Board of Revenue itself.
U R Appeal dismissed.
