A V Viswanatha Sastri V Vedantachari and K Sundararajan for the appellant.
H N Sanyal Additional Solicitor General of India D Venkatappiah Sastri and T M Sen for respondent No 1.
August 14.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAs C J.
These three appeals are directed against the judgment and order pronounced by a Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on November 20 1957 whereby three writ petitions namely No 1 of 1956 No 19 of 1957 and No 470 of 1957 which had been filed by the appellant and were heard together were dismissed with costs.
The circumstances under which the three writ petitions came to be filed by the appellant may now be narrated.
On December 10 1947 the said Balumuri Negeswara Rao is said to have assigned his right title and interest under the said agreement dated January 10 1942 to the appelent of the sons of the Rajah.
On September 7 1949 the Venkatagiri estate was notified under section 3 of the Madras Estate Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari Act 1948 Madras Act XXVI of 1948 hereinafter referred to as the abolition Act.
On the same date the appellant applied to the Collector for confirmation of the lease granted by the Rajah to him.
Instructions appear to have been issued to the manager of the Venkatagiri estate requiring him to take over possession of the slate quarries which were then being worked by the appellant immediately after the expiry of two months  notice issued to him.
2 of section 20 of the Abolition Act.
According to the argument the third proviso is not an independent proviso but is a sort of proviso to the second proviso.
In other words the third proviso according to learned counsel 559 for the appellant merely enables the Government to exercise the right conferred on it by the second proviso and therefore the Government if it intends to avail itself of the right under the second proviso must comply with the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
Then we have the express provision of the second proviso namely that rights created before the notified date but after July 1 1945 for a period exceeding one year would not be enforceable against the Government.
