As a result of the notice Lord Poole visited India in AprilMay 1965.
It is said that the plaint was producing at that time only 25 per cent of its installed capacity but that according to the assurance given by Lord Poole it would yield full production by April 1966.
According to the appellants before entering into a collaboration agreement with Ms L A Mitchell Ltd the appellant No 2 Balasubramanian was negotiating with a German firm named Kali Chemie A G of Hanover for obtaining their collaboration.
320 A lengthy argument was addressed before us by Mr Setalvad bearing on the question of mala fides in the course of which he referred us to certain documents.
If the decision arrived at by the Chairman was an independent one it cannot be said to have been rendered mala fide because it was later approved by Mr Krishnamachari whose sons undoubtedly constitute the partnership firm of Ms T T Krishnamachari  Sons.
Mr Setalvad said that as the appellants had made out a prima facie case of mala fides in their affidavits and as these allegations had been denied by the respondents the High Court was in error in refusing permission to the appellants to cross examine the persons who swore the affidavits on the side of the respondents.
He has specifically denied that it was issued at the instance of the second respondent.
In paragraph 13 he has stated that without prejudice to his submissions in the earlier paragraphs he would reply to allegations contained in the various paragraphs of the writ petition.
In this state of pleadings it would not be right to construe the affidavit of Mr Dutt to mean that the only conclusions emerging from the material before the Board are those that are set out in paragraph 14 of his affidavit.
As we have said the section gives the exploratory power only.
If the facts do reasonably suggest any of these things to the Board the power can be exercisedthough another.
In our opinion therefore the argument of Mr Setalvad about the circumstances being extraneous cannot be accepted.
We are not concerned with cls.
Apparently the four ex Directors were not holding 10 of the voting power of the Company.
In other words this is an argument that the order was made mala fide.
But it was not solely on the basis of this memorandum that action was taken by the Board.
