Appeal No 1940 of 1967.
After issues were raised on June 20 1966 the plaint was amended and additional written statements were filed by the Defendants.
CI69 17 438 1955 and further confirmed by document dated December 1 1960 is not a lease 12.
Filmistan then applied to the Court of Small Causes for an order that issues Nos 11 12  13 be tried as preliminary issues.
A revision application against that order was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Gujarat.
The objection was raised as 439 an attempt to reopen the previous decision given by the Trial Judge refusing to try issues Nos 11 12  13 as preliminary issues.
The Trial Judge observed that he had carefully gone through the consent decree and the registered agreement dated December 1 1960 and he found that the consent decree had not decided that the transaction between the parties of the year 1954 was in the nature of a lease that in the plaint in the earlier suit it was not even averred that the rights granted were in the nature of leasehold rights that suit No 149 of 1960 was for declaration of the rights of Filmistan to exhibit motion pictures in the theatre under the agreement dated November 27 1954 and for an injunction restraining the defendants from violating the said rights of Filmistan under the agreement and that the agreement dated December 1 1960 was not plain enough to exclude the oral evidence of the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the parties to explain its terms and language.
Accordingly he held that the question asked in cross examination of the witnesses for Filmistan intended to secure disclosure of the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the parties in order to show in what manner the language of the document was related to the existing facts could not be excluded.
The Court also rejected the contention that there was any bar of estoppel and held that evidence as to the true nature of the transaction was not inadmissible by virtue of section 92 of the Evidence Act.
Filmistan feeling dissatisfied with the order invoked the revisional jurisdiction of the High Court of Gujarat under section 115 of  the Code of Civil Procedure.
The revision petition was entertained and elaborate arguments were advanced at the Bar.
The High Court referred to a number of authorities and observed that the correctness of the findings of the Trial Court on issues Nos 12 and 13 may not be examined in exercise of the powers under section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
It is not open to any Court of law to try an issue over again or reopen the same if an earlier decision operates as res judicata.
But the only thing that can be said is that so far as the agreement of November 27 1954 is con cerned it must be held in view of the consent decree of December 1 1960 that that document of November 27 1954 created a lease .
The learned Judge will not proceed with the trial.
By section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure the High Court is invested with power to call for the record of any case decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereo if such subordinate court appears a to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law or b to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or c to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity and to make such order in the case as it thinks fit.
The observations made by him obviously relate to the arguments advanced at the Bar and can in no sense be regarded even indirectly as a decision on any of the issues.
But the High Court has recorded a finding that the agreement dated November 27 1954 created a lease and that the consent decree operated as res judicata.
A matter in contest in a suit may operate as res judicata only if there is an adjudication by the Court  the terms of section II of the Code leave no scope for a contrary view.
In our judgment the High Court had no jurisdiction to record any finding on the issue of res judicata in a revision application filed against an order refusing to uphold an objection to certain question asked to a witness under examination.
The expression case is not limited in its import to the entirety of the matter in dispute in an action.
442 This Court observed in Major section section Khanna vs Brig.
To interpret the expression case as an entire proceeding only and not a part of the proceeding imposes an unwarranted restriction on the exercise of powers of superintendence and may result in certain cases in denying relief to the aggrieved litigant where it is most needed and may result in the perpetration of gross injustice.
But it was not decided in Major section section Khanna s case1 that every order of the Court in the course of a suit amounts to a case decided.
A case may be said to be decided if the Court adjudicates for the purposes of the suit some right or obligation of the parties in controversy every order in the suit cannot be regarded as a case decided within the meaning of section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
The order passed by the High Court is set aside and the Trial Court is directed to proceed and dispose of the suit.
GC Appeal allowed.
