1 To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
Before dealing with the contentions canvassed before us it will be useful to notice briefly the scheme and the relevant provisions of the Act.
The title of the Act is Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 1954.
It shall apply in the first instance.
 Establishment means a shop a commercial establishment residential hotel restaurant eating house theatre or other places of public amusement or entertainment to which this Act applies and includes such other establishment as Government may by notification in the Official Gazette 35 3 declare to be an establishment for the purposes of the Act.
Further the definition of commercial establishment is wider than that of shop.
A place in order to fall within the definition of commercial Establishment must in the first instance be premises.
The occasional exhibitions or  museums organised by it are activities which are only incidental or ancillary to the primary charitable object of the Federation.
As regards the preliminary objection it is true that before the High Court it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
Alternatively it was contended that the case fell within part b of the definition of commercial establishment inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business generally.
The very definition of commercial establishment indicates that the activity of a registered society charitable or other trust will not take it out of the definition if the activity carried on by it amounts to a busi 11971 1 SCR 177.
No doubt the effective membership as distinguished from Honorary membership of the Federation is open only to Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations of requisite strength and standing but the fact remains that it carries on systematic activities not only to assist its members but also other traders or businessmen members of the constituents of the Federation.
It will bear repetition that the Federation also publishes periodicals bulletins etc.
