About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child according to customary practice were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased s mother.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
The accused and P W 8 went away.
After dinner all of them went to sleep.
After holding the inquest the dead body was sent for postmortem examination.
The Medical Officer P W 12 who conducted the autopsy found on the dead body a stab wound over the left axila 6 cms.
nearly horizontal.
In the Committing Court the accused was content with a bare denial but in the Court of Sessions he stated that he went to the house of his mother in law at about 10 pm.
P Ws 1 and 2 taunted him saying we are maintaining you and your wife yet you come at any time you like .
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 pm was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P 15 the wound certificate given by PW 13 the Medical officer in respect of the injuries which he found on the person of the accused.
He also contended that two views were possible on the evidence and the accused was entitled to the benefit of doubt.
The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P Ws 1 2 and 3 were of a minor character and that they have been unduly magnified by the learned Sessions Judge.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
below the arm pit on the left side.
He probably attributed the refusal to reluctance on the part of his wife to accompany him straightaway.
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence the prosecution tried to make P W 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
This of course is not a new principle.
If the preponderance of probability is all one way a bare possibility of another view will not entitle the accused to claim the benefit of any doubt.
It is therefore essential that any view of the evidence in favour of the accused must be reasonable even as any doubt the benefit of which an accused person may claim must be reasonable A reasonable doubt it has been remarked does not mean some light airy insubstantial doubt that may flit through the minds of any of us about almost anything at some time or other it does not mean a doubt begotten by sympathy out of reluctance to convict it means a real doubt a doubt founded upon reason4.
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions5 Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
1 61 IA 389.
R 4 Salmon J in his charge to the jury in R V Fantle reported in 5 370 The law would fail to protect the community if it admitted fanciful possibilities to deflect the course of justice.
In Khem Karan  Ors.
P B R Appeal dismissed.
