OptrRecep tionistAssist.
975 EB 40 1175.
Asstt 35 1020 EB 40 1300 1265 EB 45 1490.
Asstt Canteen Asstt.
70 1690 80 2010.
The Tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
 The jurisdiction given to the Tribunal by rule 31 is closely circumscribed.
The addition was integrated as a feature of the wage scales it was not regarded as an addition to the pay of each individual workman.
Our attention has been drawn to what purports to be an endorsement by counsel for the appellant on the application dated 22nd December 1978 filed by the Union before the Tribunal to the effect that the appellant would submit to whatever the Tribunal decided and it is urged that the appellant is bound by the order made on the application.
The only contention of the workmen is that the Tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
It is wrong in principle it is said to provide a fixed dearness allowance.
In the said award Your Honour has observed at the end of Para 22 In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance .
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
The endorsement made on the application by the Advocate for the company does not indicate that the company had any objection to the award being corrected as sought by the employees union.
Implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
At the end of paragraph 15 of the Award the Tribunal stated But there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
For some years to come this is likely to be one of the few Consulting Engineers who will be securing major contracts.
ii Employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st January 1976 2 increments.
iii All other employees with more than one year s service shall be given one increment.
Therefore they filed an application before the Tribunal for correcting the award so as to bring out what was intended.
The application before the Tribunal was filed under Rule 31 of the Bombay Industrial Disputes Rules 1957 which is as follows A Board Court Labour Court Tribunal or Arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
We are not impressed with the submission of the learned counsel for the Company that the corrigendum was in effect a fresh award.
We have already indicated that we agree with our brother Pathak J that the appeal Civil Appeal No 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen should also be dismissed.
SR Appeals dismissed.
