Krishan Kumar was a party respondent in the Special Leave Petition also.
In March 1980 the licence for the Theatre was renewed by the District Magistrate in the name of Ved Gupta.
In being served with the order of injunction Ved Gupta wrote to the District Magistrate on September 24 1980 that it had become impossible for him to operate the Cinema licence in view of the temporary injunction issued by the District Court and since it is only the licensee who is held responsible under the Act and the Rules for due compliance with all the terms and conditions of the licence and answerable to the licensing authority for all commissions and omissions in the Cinema premises he may be saved from any prosecution or other action under law in the capacity of licensee of the Apsara Theatre in respect of any illegal acts or offences committed by others in the said premises.
It reads Whereas it has been brought to my notice by Shri Ved Gupta sole licensee Apsara Theatre that the District and Sessions Judge Jammu has issued a temporary injunction against the exhibition of films by him in the above said Theatre And whereas the SP City by his letter No 1Conf.
This order shall come into force with immediate effect.
It may be mentioned at this stage that at that time the High Court was functioning with a srength of only four Judges and excluding the learned Single Judge who heard the writ petition and the two members of the Division Bench the Acting Chief Justice and Justice who comprised the Division Bench which heard the Letters Patent Appeal Kotwal J was the only other Judge available in the High Court.
2 If the judges composing the bench are equally divided on any point they shall state the point upon which they differ and the case shall then be heard upon that point by one or more of the other Judges designated for the purpose by the Chief Justice and such point shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority if any of the judges who have heard the case including those who first heard it.
3 If there is no such majority then the decision shall be in accordance with the decision of the senior Judge except in the case of an appeal from a decree where such decree shall be confirmed 586 In the opinion of the Division Bench the present case was governed by sub rule 3 of Rule 23 and consequently the decision in the case had to be in accordance with the opinion of the senior Judge.
Accordingly the Division Bench passed orders in CMP No 454 of 1981 that the Letters Patent Appeal will stand allowed in conformity with the view taken by the Acting Chief Justice in his judgment.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
That writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on May 9 1978 SLP Civil No 3490 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal against the High Court s order dismissing his writ petition was rejected by this Court on November 13 1978.
No steps were taken by Krishan Kumar to challenge the said order passed by the District Magistrate.
In the view of the preceding factual history of the case there was no scope in law for countenancing any contention being advanced on behalf of the firm that Ved Gupta had obtained the licence and had been holding the same for and on behalf of the partnership.
In proceedings to which the licensing authority was a party the High Court as well as this Court had upheld its order holding Ved Gupta to be the sole licensee rejecting the case put forward on behalf of the firm and the firm and its partners are bound by the said decision.
It is sufficient to state that these reasons do not appeal to us as correct or tenable.
We are also unable to accept as correct the view expressed by the learned Acting Chief Justice that under the Act the licence is granted for premises permanently equipped for cinematograph exhibition in the name of the owner Manager of the Cinematographs used in the premises and hence it necessarily follows that where the licensed premises including the cinematograph used therein belongs to a partnership and one of the partners obtains a licence in his separate name the other partners automatically acquire interests in the licence and that the privilege granted by the licensing authority must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
The next ground stated in the impugned judgment for quashing the order passed by the District Magistrate is that the said order was violative of the principles of natural justice in as much as no notice or hearing had been given to the partnership firm before the order was passed.
The effect of the order was that Ved Gupta had no longer possession or control over the Theatre premises or the cinematograph apparatus installed therein despite the fact that the was the licensee responsible to the authorities under the statute for the due discharge of the obligations contained in the Rules and in the conditions appended to the licence.
On September 26 1980 the Superintendent of Police Jammu reported to the District District Magistrate that cinema exhibition in Apsara Theatre was being conducted by some persons other than the licensee and hence the licensee had been challenged by him under Section 6 of the Act.
If Ved Gupta the licensee bad been expelled from the partnership the proper course to be adopted by the firm and its partners was to move the authorities for the grant of a licence and to run the Theatre only after obtaining such licence.
So long as they did not have a licence we have already found that the licence had been granted to Ved Gupta only in his individual and personal capacity and not as a representative of the firm the firm and the partners had no legal right whatever to operate the cinema.
Any such operation by them would have been in clear and gross contravention of the law embodied if the relevant provisions of the Act and the Rules.
In the absence of any legal right or legitimate expectation being 593 available to the petitioners there was no obligation on the part of the District Magistrate to afford them a hearing before passing the impugned order.
Proceeding on that premise the learned Acting Chief Justice has said that under the provisions of the Act the power to suspend a licence is conferred only by Section 6 F of the Act as one implicit in the larger power of revocation and unless the conditions precedent mentioned in the said Section are present the licensing authority had no jurisdiction to suspend the licence.
As already observed by us the impugned order is not one suspending the licence issued in respect of the Theatre.
It this becomes manifest that all the grounds stated by the Division Bench of the High Court for upsetting the judgment of the learned Single Judge dismissing the writ petition are incorrect an unsustainable in law.
HLC Appeal allowed.
