The controversy is as to the meaning of the term officer or employee  used in sub s1 of section 630 and as to the meaning of the words any such property  in cl.
It also held that the words any such property  in section 630lb relate to property specified in cl.
That has been the consistent view taken by the High Court of Bombay in a series of cases.
See Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh  Anr  Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi  Anr  which have since been followed in a series of cases referred to by the learned Single Judge Ashok Agarwal J.
1 of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
1 of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section 2 also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section.
At the conclusion of the hearing we had by a short order dismissed the special leave petition and held that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge following the earlier decisions of the High Court in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani and reiterated in Govind T Jagtiani was to be preferred to the view to the contrary expressed by the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum.
The reasons therefor follow.
At the very threshold it is necessary to set out a few facts.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
Prior to that ie On September 26 1984 he addressed a letter requesting the company to permit him to continue to live in the company s premises during the period of his accumulated leave after his retirement ie for a period of six months undertaking to vacate the flat as early as possible.
It appears that the company on humanitarian grounds acceded to this request and permitted the petitioner to stay on in the company s flat for six months after his retirement and in accordance with the company s rules he was required to pay compensation for the use of the premises.
Since the petitioner failed to vacate the flat the company initiated proceedings for his eviction under the Public Premises Eviction of Unauthorised occupants Act 1971.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
A few days thereafter ie On March 7 1986 the petitioner instituted a suit being Civil Suit No 174 138286 in Small Causes Court Bombay seeking a declaration that he was a tenant of the disputed flat which is now pending.
In view of this the company was constrained to lodge a complaint against the petitioner under section 630 of the Act in the Court of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate 37th Court Esplanade Bombay alleging that he was wrongfully withholding the flat in question which had been given to him for his residence during the period of his employment and and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 630.
On June 30 1986 the company merged with the Shipping Corporation of India and all its assets and liabilities were taken over by the Corporation.
We are informed that the petitioner has been deliberately and dishonestly withholding the flat covering an area of 1750 square feet in Cuffe Parade which is a posh area valued at approximately Rs30 lakhs and putting it to his own use contrary to the terms of his employment.
It is submitted that on a true construction the scope and effect of the section was limited to such property of the company which was wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company.
b of sub section.
b does not stand by itself but is inter connected with cl.
1 of section 630 of the Act makes it an offence where any officer or employee of a company wrongfully withholds possession of 175 such property of the company.
Secondly it is contended that the legislature never intended to include past officers and employees of a company within the ambit of section 630 of the Act which provides for prosecution of an officer or employee of a company for wrongfully withholding the property of the company inasmuch as it has used different languages where it was so intended namely in sections 538 and 545.
The entire argument of the learned counsel is based upon the judgment of the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case.
The beneficent provision contained in section 630 no doubt penal has been purposely enacted by the legislature with the object of providing a summary procedure for retrieving the property of the company a where an officer or employee of a company wrongfully obtains possession of property of the company or b where having been placed in possession of any such property during the course of his employment.
wrongfully withholds possession of it after the termination of his employment.
Section 630 of the Act which makes the wrongful withholding of any property of a company by an officer or employee of the company a penal offence is typical of the economy of language which is characteristic of the draughtsman of the Act.
The section is in two parts.
This is the function of cl.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
That appears to be one of the functions of cl.
It would be noticed that cl.
b also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
That would primarily apply to the present officers and employees and may also include past officers and employees.
a into cl.
There is also no warrant for the construction placed by the High Court of Calcutta on the words any such property  occurring in cl.
b as applicable to such property of a company possession of which is wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company ie refers to the whole of cl.
a of section 6301 was referable to existing officer or employee of a company while cl.
b was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations as suggested.
In particular the learned judge referred to section 538 which provides for prosecution for offences by officers of companies in liquidation and uses the expression a past or present officer of a company etc  as also section 545 which provides for prosecution of delinquent officers and members of a company during the course of winding up and uses the words any past or present officer etc  Upon that basis he observed that there was no reason to give a twisted and laboured interpretation to the provisions of section 630 of the Act which its plain reading does not permit.
b as taking in the property mentioned in cl.
which is an offence under section 630lb of the Act as rightly pointed out by VS Kotwal J in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh supra.
The facts were also identical as here.
He had been allotted the premises of a flat approximately 3500 square feet in area located at Mayfair Gardens Little Gibbs Road Bombay.
He had been inducted into the flat only by virtue of his capacity as the General Manager of the company s branch office at Bombay but the company allowed him to retain the same on humanitarian grounds for a short period after his retirement to enable him to find alternative accommodation.
The question was whether such wrongful retention of the flat amounted to an offence under section 63 of the Act.
b even though cls.
a and b are separated by the word or  which must in the context in which it appears be read as and  and so construed must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
On a careful analysis of section 630 held that the provisions of the section apply not only to the present officers and employees of the company but also to past officers and employees and observed It is held that the features and deductions which flow logically and inescapably on an analysis of section 630 are that i Clause a of the section is self contained and independent of cl.
a as regards penal consequences squarely covering the case of a past employee or officer.
iii The entitlement of an officer to the property of the company is contingent on the right and capacity of the officer by virtue of his employment which is transformed into the actual possession of the property and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment.
 The learned Judge Ashok Agarwal J observes that that has been the consistent view of the High Court and has referred to the subsequent decisions of Khatri j J and Kurdukar J.
We accordingly uphold the view of the High Court of Bombay that the terms officer or employee  of a company applies not only to existing officers or employees but also to past officers or employees if such officer or employee either a wrongfully obtains possession of any property or b having obtained such property during the course of his employment withholds the same after the termination of his employment.
In the result the special leave petition must fail and is dismissed with costs.
The petitioner is given one month s time to vacate the premises failing which the respondents will be at liberty to take such proceedings as the law provides.
