Civil Appeal No 1709 of 1988.
From the Judgment and Order dated 9101987 of t he Central Administrative Tribunal Chandigarh in Appln.
MKD Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP Civil N o 6998 of 1988.
SM Ashri and Mahabir Singh for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K JAGANNATHA SHETTY J.
Short factual background is this Parmanand Respondent in the appeal was a Time Keeper in Beas Sutlej Link Project Sundernagar.
He was incharge of preparing the pay bills and other bills of the work charg ed employees of the project.
It was alleged that he maSte r minded and prepared the pay roll pertaining to T  Token of Central Survey Division Sundernagar for the month of M ay 1969 and entered the name of one Shri Ashok Kumar Token N o 59 T at serial No 10 on page 2 of the relevant pay roll.
He made this entry with ulterior motive to withdraw the pay of Ashok Kumar for the month of May 1969 even though Ash ok Kumar was not working in that Division.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar TNo.
59 T with the sign a tures of the issuing officer was also prepared by the r e spondent although it was not his duty to prepare the ident i ty card.
He also prepared a bogus identity card in the name of the abo ve Shri Ashok Kumar and initiated it below the signatures of issuing officer and this identity card Was used by Sh ri Suraj Singh Cleaner Token No 210 K Boggi Tunnelli ng Division at the time of attempting to receive the pay of Shri Ashok Kumar from the Cashier.
Consequentl y the said writ petition stood transferred to the Tribunal by operation of section 29 of that Act.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
In view of the foregoing it cannot be termed th at the finding returned by the Inquiry Officer is without a ny evidence.
 It was also observed that there was no denial of a reasonable opportunity for the respondent to set up prop er defence.
After reaching this conclusion the Tribunal pr o ceeded to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded to t he respondent.
In the intere st of 25 justice it is necessary to modify the punishment awarded to the applicant.
There will be no order as to costs.
 The Tribunal seems to suggest that the respondent w as not the only master mind to commit the fraudulent act a nd there were others too and as such he should not be mea s ured with a different yardstick.
The Tribunal however h as held that the respondent was guilty of entering the name of Ashok Kumar in the pay roll of May 4969.
Being aggrieved by the reduction of penalty the Uni on of India has preferred the Civil Appeal No 1709 of 198 8.
Parma Nanda seeking a complete exoneration from the char ge has preferred the SLP No 6998 of 1988.
