The same were allowed by the Collector Appeals.
The appellant was not a manufacturer of drums.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
Explanation.
For the purposes of this sub clause the amount of the duty of excise payable on any excisable goods shall be the sum total of a the effective duty of excise payable on such goods under this Act and b the aggregate of the effective duties of excise payable under other Central Acts if any providing for the levy of duties of excise on such goods  and the effective duty of excise on such goods under each Act referred to in clause a or clause b shall be i in a case where a notification or order providing for any exemption not being an exemption for giving credit with respect to for reduction or duty of excise under such Act on such goods equal to any duty of excise under such Act or the additional duty under Section 3 of the 51 of 1975 already paid on the raw material or component parts used in the production or manufacture of such goods from the duty of excise under such Act is for the time being in force the duty of excise computed with refer ence to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods as reduced so as to give full and complete effect to such exemption and ii in any other case the duty of excise computed with reference to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods.
The respondent supplied these gases in cylinders at their factory gate.
Furthermore no cost was in fact incurred by the assessee.
In my opinion that is the correct approach to the problem.
Here also obviously the reference is not generally to the taxes payable on such goods by either the assessee or the buyer but is obviously to the taxes payable by the assessee.
It is only that degree of secondary packing which is necessary for assessable articles to be in the condition in which it is generally sold in the wholesale market which can be included at the factory gate which should be included in the value of the article.
It may be necessary in this connection to refer to the observations of this Court in Union of India  Ors.
He answered that it is not.
In the aforesaid view of the matter I am of the opinion that these appeals have to be allowed and the orders of the Tribunal set aside.
In construing section 44di all that has to be seen is whether the goods are delivered in packed condition.
In my opinion also the above conclusion reached on the language of section 44di of the Act is sufficient to allow these appeals.
