in that suit an injunction was prayed for in respect of 100 acres of the property involved in the suit but the prayer was rejected.
o s 156 of 1103 m e 1927 28 a d in the district court at quilon against the respondent to establish his right and title to the said 160 acres and in the adjoining cherikkal lands in his possession.
against that order a civil miscellaneous appeal no 206 of 1110 m e 1934 35 a d was filed in the high court of travancore.
the high court issued a commission for inspecting the properties and the commissioner in his report part 13 of ext.
112 of 1100 1925 a d as the suit of the illom had been finally disposed of and the title of the illom to the lands was not established the appellant apprehending that he might be ejected in the above l c case filed a suit.
cc set out the improvements made by the appellant on the lands which comprised of a bungalow in which the appellant was residing a number of small houses.
it may here be mentioned that while the suit of the illom i e o s no 126 of 1096 m e was pending in the district court quilon the government of travancore had initiated proceedings in ejectment against the appellant by l c case.
a rubbers state and a large number of other valuable trees like jack trees mango trees coconut trees etc.
it appears that as there was no injunction restraining his dispossession in l c case.
112 of 11 00 m e an order was passed for dispossessing the appellant on july 24 1939 ext.
this appeal is by special leave against the judgment and decree of the high court of kerala which dismissed an appeal against the judgment and decree of the subordinate court of havelikkara.
an appeal against it was dismissed on september 27 1943.
it is the case of the appellant that even after the act was passed unauthorised occupants of land belonging to the government who had made improvements therein had under the rules made both under the act and the land assignment act a preferential claim over others for getting kuthakapattom or assignment of the property in their possession.
this practice it seems was also current in respect of lands belonging to the government before the travancore land conservancy act 4 of 1091 24 7 1916 hereinafter called the act.
it was further held that the greater part of the improvements were affected by the appellant after the proceedings in the l c case no 112 of 1100 m e were stayed as such it can not be said that these improvements could have been effected in good faith.
it may be mentioned that in respect of the 160 acres of land of the illom which were occupied by the appellant s father and the appellant there was a dispute between the illom and the travancore state from about 1848.
the appellant had filed a suit on october 24 1942 for the recovery of rs 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the state of travancore now the state of kerala the respondent and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the high court.
the appellant pursuant to this order was dispossessed from the lands and possession of these lands was given to the second defendant nair service society ltd in august 1939.
with respect to the allegation that an order of forfeiture was not served on the appellant under section 9 of the act the court observed that though the state had in its written statement contended that such an order had been passed no order was produced in evidence and consequently it was conceded by the government pleader that no such order was passed.
thereafter the suit filed by the illom was dismissed on 28 6 1109 february 10 1934.
all this according to the trial court would show that the appellant was aware that he was remaining on government lands without title.
it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
while this dispute was pending it appears the appellant applied to the conservator of forests for registration of the lands in his name but the application was rejected on june 14 1919 stating that the land applied for can not be registered ext.
in that suit the appellant after his application for registration was rejected sought to get himself impleaded but that application also was rejected.
it has alleged in the plaint that the plaintiff appellant was wrongfully dispossessed from 160 acres of land along with the improvements which had been effected by him and as the state had appropriated those improvements without any right or title thereto he claimed the value of those improvements.
this view of ours is supported by the case of clark and another v gaskarth 8 taunt 431.
a while the application for registration was pending the dispute between the illom and the state of travancore had reached a stage when the illom had to institute a suit o section no.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
that was a case of a trespass for breaking and entering the closes of the plaintiffs and tearing up digging up cutting down and carrying away the plaintiff s trees plants roots and seeds growing on the closes.
it pointed out that the plaintiff appellant had applied to get himself impleaded on 0 s no 126 of 1096 m e but his application was rejected and after that suit was dismissed the appellant again applied for registry but that was also rejected.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
in the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
with those specified in that section to all of which the process of becoming ripe and of being cut gathered made and laid up when ripe was incidental.
thereafter the suit out of which this appeal arises was filed against the government on october 24 1942.
it may however include the fruit of the trees.
it was the appellant s case that he had been in occupation of the said 160 acres of cherikkal land unregistered dry lands in hilly tracts about which and the adjoining lands there was a dispute as to whether the same belonged to a jenmi family known as koodalvalli illom hereinafter called the illom or to the government of the erstwhile travancore state.
in our view therefore trees are not included within the meaning of other products raised on the land in section 9 of the act and there is therefore no obligation on the government to give notice of forfeiture under that section.
the appellant s father and the appellant had occupied these lands made improvement thereon by planting coconut trees arecanut palms peppervines rubber trees jack trees other trees and by constructing bungalow huts wells etc.
notice of this trespass was given to the defendant.
the court rejected the contention that the trees and shrubs could be detrained and held that the word product in the eighth section of the statute did not extend to trees and shrubs growing in a nurseryman s ground but that it was confined to products of a similar nature.
the trial court also held that all through these long years there had been a dispute as to the title between the illom and the state and after the suit of the illom was dismissed and the illom s title was not sustained the allegation that the improvements were effected can not be stated to be bona fide.
section 9 of the act is in the following terms any person unauthorised occupying any land for which he is liable to pay a fine under section 6 and an assessment or prohibitory assessment under section 7 may be summarily evicted by the division peishkar and any crop or other product raised on the land shall be liable to forfeiture and any building or other structure erected or anything deposited thereon shall also if not removed by him after such written notice as the division peishkar may deem reasonable be liable to forfeiture.
before dealing with this aspect we will first consider the question whether trees are included within the meaning of section 9 so as to entitle the appellant to a notice of forfeiture there under.
the rest of the claim was dismissed.
