in the said c o no 9 of 1986 filed by the first respondent against m s jain industries despite service of notice nobody appeared on behalf of the defendant 16 1 1987 was the date fixed in the said suit.
may1986 and may be renewed at the expiration of that period and of each succeeding period of a seven years.
appellant s counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
in view of that statement a submission was made on behalf of the first respondent that it may be permitted to withdraw the petition with liberty to file a fresh petition on the same cause of action.
the registration of the aforesaid trade mark has been renewed from time to time and will remain in force for a period of a seven years from 13th.
the learned judge directed recording of statements of the learned counsel in this behalf pursuant whereto the same were recorded which reads as under c o 9 of 1986.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
mr singh has filed a reply in this petition bringing out that presently he is the registered owner of the trademark which is sought to be cancelled in this petition.
in view of this situation learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that he may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action after impleading m s thakural mechanical works etc.
let the statement of learned counsel for the petitioner be recorded.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
the plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of order 39 rule 4 of the code of civil procedure.
that pursuant to a request on form tm 23 dated 17th june1986 and order thereon dated 24th october1986.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
the factual matrix of the matter which is not much in dispute is as under.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.
the said m s jain industries however was not impleaded as a party therein.
the petition is accordingly filed as withdrawn leaving the parties to bear their own costs.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
one of the stipulations contained therein reads as under that the party of the second part has satisfied the party of the first part of having used the mark field marshal in respect of centrifugal pumps and valves since 1973.
indisputably appellant filed an application in form tm 24 on 17 6 1986 the assistant registrar trade marks passed an order on 10 11 1986 certifying that the trade mark field marshal brand word per se is registered under no 228867 in part a of the register as of the date 13th.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
indisputably first respondent filed an application under section 4656 and 107 of the act marked as c o no 9 of 1986contending that m s jain industries having not used the trade mark in respect of centrifugal pumps for a period more than five years and one month the mark should be taken off the register.
it may mean the moment or existing position as was held by this court in the case of jivendra nath kaul v collector district magistrate and anr 1992.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
in these circumstances the request of the plaintiff is granted and petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition and file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
3 scc 576 1992 indlaw sc 1107 or in the context of cl 22 of art 366 of the constitution as has been held in h h maharajadhiraja.
that the appellant was an infringer both of the right of m s jain industries as also the first respondent and thus its use was not bona fide in a case of this nature can not be accepted.
the submission of mr sudhir chandra.
the cause of action therefor was stated to have arisen in the following circumstances that the cause of action for the present petition arose in favour of the petitioner and against the respondents in the month of january 1987 when the respondent informed this honourable court that they have been recorded as subsequent proprietors of the impugned registered trade mark no 228867 in class 7 in c o no 9 of 1986whereupon the petitioner withdrew the said earlier petition c o no 9 of 1986 with permission of the court to file the present petition because of the changed circumstances.
there can not be any doubt or dispute that the registration of a trade mark confers a very valuable right.
in view of the submissions of m s thakural mechanical works i may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
v addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under s 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in s 56 for canceling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
the words for the time being would mean differently in different situations.
the person in whose name the trade mark has been registered may take action against any person for passing off the goods as that of the registered owner.
respondent no 1 thereafter filed a suit in the delhi high court for grant of a decree of permanent injunction being suit no 2408 of 1985 alleging infringement of the said mark andor claiming right of passing off in respect thereof.
if appellant infringed the right of m s jain industries it was for it to take action there for.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
the request is not opposed on behalf of m s thakural mechanical works.
madhav rao jivaji rao scindia bahadur of gwalior h h maharajadhiraja.
the terms also may bring within its umbrage the entire period of five years or more irrespective of the fact as to whether the registered proprietor was one or more than one as has been held by the high court.
the high court on the other hand opined it was not anybody s case before us that m s jain industries.
it was observed that in cases of intermittent use also cl b shall apply.
trade mark no 228867 in.
the board has taken the view that the period of five years and one month will begin to run from the date on which thukral became the proprietor of the trademark that is30th may1986 and therefore the rectification application could have been filed by the appellant only sometime in 1991 opining that an application for rectification against the appellant within a period of seven and a half months from the date of assignment of the trade mark was not maintainable the application was dismissed.
