on that score alone the high court s order is unsustainable.
the high court was therefore not justified in holding that this court s earlier order only waived the limitation for filing a letters patent appeal.
in addition the high court seems to have gone by the nomenclature gone by the nomenclature i e the discription given in the writ petition to be one u art 227 of the constitution.
the high court did not consider the nature of the controversy and the prayer involved in the writ petition.
the high court was directed to dispose of the lpa on merits if it was otherwise free from defect.
as noted above the prayer was to quash the order of assessment passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax levying purchase as well as entry tax.
a bare reading of the order shows that the direction was to consider the lpa on merits and time was granted to prefer the lpa within three weeks.
s 2 of the act reads as follows 21.
an appeal shall lie from a judgment or order passed by the one judge of the high court in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution of india to a division bench comprising of two judges of the same high court.
provided that no such appeal shall lie against an interlocutory order or against an order passed in exercise of supervisory jurisdiction u art 227 of the constitution of india.
challenge in this appeal is to the judgment of a division bench of the madhya pradesh high court dismissing the writ appeal filed by the appellant on the ground that it was not maintainable.
it is the nature of the relief sought for and the controversy involved which determines the article which is applicable.
the special leave petition is disposed of accordingly.
that being so the mere fact that the writ petition was styled u art 227 of the constitution is of no consequence.
the nature of the exercise of the power under article 226however remains the same as in the case of the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts.
learned counsel for the respondent state on the other hand supported the impugned judgment of the high court.
the appeal was filed u s 21 of the m p uchacha nyayalay khand nyaypeth ko appeal adhiniyam2005.
this court in hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque and ors air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 held that the high court while issuing writ of certiorari u art 226 of the constitution can only annul a decision of a tribunal whereas u art 227 of the constitution it can issue further directions as well.
a series of decisions of this court has firmly established that a proceeding u art 226 is an original proceeding and when it concerns civil rights it is an original civil proceeding see for instance state of u p v.
the interim order passed by this court shall continue for the aforesaid purpose.
by art 226 the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts prior to the commencement of the constitution has been made wider and more extensive and conferred upon every high court.
additionally it is submitted that the prayer in the writ petition was to quash the order passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax.
the earlier order passed by this court dated 22 8 2006 reads as follows heard.
since we had entertained the special leave petition against the learned single judge s order it would be appropriate to grant three weeks time to the petitioner to prefer the lpa which if otherwise free from defect shall be entertained for being considered on merits.
hereinafter referred to as the act it was held that the order was passed in exercise of power of superintendence u art 227 of the constitution of india1950 in short the constitution against which the letters patent appeal is not maintainable.
since the impugned order is passed by a learned single judge.
scc 401 1986 indlaw sc 651 in.
the normal remedy is to file a letters patent appeal.
that case o chinnappa reddy and d p madon.
the judicial committee held in their lordships opinion any original civil jurisdiction possessed by the high court and not in express terms conferred by the letters patent or later enactments falls within the description of ordinary original civil jurisdiction.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of this court is very clear and the conclusions of the high court that merely limitation was waived is contrary to the clear terms of the earlier order of this court.
1963 1 scr 1 1962 indlaw sc 34016cit v ishwarlal bhagwandas air 1965 sc 1818 1965 indlaw sc 158ramesh v seth gendalal motilal patni 1966 3 scr 198 1966 indlaw sc 395arbind kumar singh v nand kishore prasad1968 3 scr 322 1968 indlaw sc 223 and ahmedabad mfg calico ptg.
