the first respondent then filed three separate applications before the madras high court inter alia under sections 46 and 56 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958.
the said order was confirmed on may 222001 to remain operative till disposal of suit.
the 1958 act in o p no 764 of 2001the first respondent prayed for the removal rectification of the entry in the register of trade mark in respect of trade mark no 475269 in class 16 while in the other two applications being o p no 765 of 2001 and o p no 766 of 2001the first respondent prayed for removal rectification of trade mark no 475267 in class 9 and trade mark no 484837 in class 7 respectively.
the appellant opposed these applications on diverse grounds by filing counter affidavits.
the single judge of the madras high court passed an interim restraint order on february 12001 against the first respondent.
on august 122003the madras high court framed the following issues.
in january 2001the appellant filed yet another suit before the high court of judicature at madras for permanent injunction restraining the first respondent from offering shares to the public as claimed in the initial public offer ipo using infosys.
a whether the mark applied for registration was used in respect of the goods for which the mark was registered.
b whether the respondent had a bonafide intention to use the mark applied for under section 18 of the trade and merchandise marks act.
cwhether the mark registered in favour of the respondent is a service mark.
these three appeals by special leave are directed against the order dated september 92004 passed by intellectual property appellate board for shortipab whereby it ordered the removal of appellant s mark infosys from the register of trade marks in respect of computer stationery computer manuals printed matter for computer instructional and teaching materials computer hardware and peripherals and machine and machine tools.
on september 132000the calcutta high court restrained the department of company affairs and registrar of companies from incorporating any company bearing the name infosys without the permission of the appellant.
the first respondent was incorporated and registered in september 1978 under the name of jupiter agencies pvt.
the first respondent is jupiter infosys limited.
the said suit was transferred to the court of the additional district judge tis hazari court delhi.
the name of the first respondent was changed to jupiter infosys p limited in august1995 and now since july2003the name is changed to jupiter international limited.
the appellant is infosys technologies limited.
dwhether there is a non use of registered trade mark by the respondent for a period of over 5 years and 1 month.
in that suit an affidavit came to be filed by the first respondent wherein it was stated that the name of the company has been changed from jupiter infosys limited to jupiter international limited and a certificate to that effect has been issued by the registrar of companies kolkata under the companies act1956 and no dispute remains between the parties under the trade mark.
the appellant having come to know of several instances of misuse of mark infosys also filed a writ petition being writ petition no 14214 of 2000 before the calcutta high court inter alia praying that the registrar of companies be restrained from registering the companies bearing the name infosys.
compliance of order xxxix rule 3 cpc within three days.
ltd and thereafter on june 21992the name was changed to the present name i e.
on october 111996the appellant instituted a suit in the calcutta high court for perpetual injunction inter alia restraining the first respondent from infringing the appellant s mark infosys by using the mark infosys by itself or in combination with other marks in course of its trade.
the ad interim order was confirmed on november 291996.
he vehemently contended that goods in classes 79 and 16 for which the appellant obtained registration were never used in the manner contemplated by the 1958 act for almost 30 years and that would show the mala fide intention of the appellant in having the same registered for the purpose of squatting and trafficking.
it was incorporated and registered under the companies act1956 on july 21981 in the name of infosys consultants private limited.
the appellant also prayed for an interim order in the suit.
on november 221996the calcutta high court by an ad interim order restrained the first respondent from using the word infosys in any manner in relation to the goods for the time being.
learned counsel for the first respondent further argued that infosys is not an invented or a coined word the said word is an abbreviation and combination of the words information system the word infosys has been used by various companies abroad as well as within india prior to incorporation of the appellant itself and hence can not be called an invented word.
accordingly it is directed that pending further consideration of the matter after notice for the next date of hearing the defendants are restrained by themselves their directors employees agents andor others acting on its behalf from using the trade mark corporate name infosys or any other mark name deceptively similar trade mark or colourable imitation thereof as a mark andor corporate name or as part of a mark andor business name in respect of goods andor services for publicity on propaganda on websites and or in domain names in any way whatsoever thereby causing infringement of the registered trade mark infosys of the plaintiff in isolation or in combination with words letters numbers their advertisements as part of their corporate name either in isolation or in goods and services or in or by way of any advertisement publicity campaigns etc.
limited was changed to infosys technologies pvt.
the relevant statement made in the affidavit dated july 142003 we were informed that the date of the affidavit is july 142004 reads as follows that in the meantime the defendant has already changed the trade mark namely jupiter international ltd in place of jupiter infosys ltd the copy of the incorporation on change of name which was issued by the registrar of the companies are being marked and annexed herewith as annexure a that now there is no dispute between the plaintiff and defendant under the trade mark.
having regard to the order that we intend to make we are not persuaded to accept the objection raised on behalf of the first respondent that present appeal preferred directly before this court from the impugned order passed by the ipab is not maintainable and must be dismissed as such.
ewhether the registered trade mark is disentitled for protection in a court of law under section 11e of the trade and merchandise marks act.
moreover there is nothing on record to indicate linkage with the manufacturing or marketing of the goods for which the appellant is holding registration of subject trade marks.
the appellant got the trade mark infosys registered in 1987 in classes 16 and 9 in connection with computer stationery computer manuals printed manual for computer instruction and teaching materials computer hardwares computer interface computer peripherals electronics telex interface and in 1988 in class 7 in connection with machine and machine tools and motors not for land vehicles the particulars with reference to the trade mark registered by the appellant are as follows.
pertinently the notice was issued in the petitions for special leave to appeal to the respondents on november 12004 in response to the said notice the first respondent filed counter affidavit before this court on march 112005 wherein no specific objection about invocation of jurisdiction of this court directly has been taken.
on april 211992the name of the company infosys consultants pvt.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in nestle s products india.
lastly he submitted that although no cross objections or cross appeal has been filed the first respondent has some grievance with regard to the order of the ipab in not considering the case set up in the rectification removal applications particularly with regard to section 56 of the 1958 act.
i am of the opinion that in case ex parte ad interim orders are not granted the relief claimed itself may be rendered infructuous.
in reply to the arguments of learned counsel for the appellant mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent strenuously urged that the plea of aggrieved person is a new plea and raised substantially for the first time before this court.
on the other hand an objection is raised in the written submissions on behalf of the first respondent and reference was made in support of the objection to seven judge bench decision of this court in l chandrakumar v union of india ors 1997 3 scc 261 1997 indlaw sc 2816 that challenge to the order of ipab directly in the appeal before this court under article 136 of the constitution is barred.
the vacation judge of the delhi high court on december 272002 passed an order of temporary injunction against the first respondent as follows notice for 24th march2003 before the joint registrar.
perused the averments made in the suit and application which are duly supported by documents on record.
in that suit the appellant also made an application for grant of temporary injunction.
on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved the tribunal may make such order as it may think fit for cancelling or varying the registration of a trade mark on the ground of any contravention or failure to observe a condition entered on the register in relation thereto.
s 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register 1.
he argued that the appellant has not taken the plea of the first respondent not being a person aggrieved with respect to filing of the applications for rectification before the ipab merely urging the plea that the first respondent has no locus standi in the written submissions before the ipab is not sufficient.
an applicant shall not be entitled to rely for the purpose of clause b of sub section 1 or for the purposes of sub section 2 on any non use of a trade mark which is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade and not to any intention to abandon or not to use the trade mark in relation to the goods to which the application relates.
insofar as discretion exercised by ipab in ordering removal of the appellant s registrations from the register under section 461b of the 1958 act is concerned learned counsel for the first respondent submitted that this court should not overturn the discretion so exercised by the ipab keeping in view the dishonest and fraudulent conduct of the appellant.
he contended that the first respondent is not shown to have ever traded or intended to trade in any goods covered by the appellant s registrations under classes 7 and 16 and as such the first respondent is not a person aggrieved with regard to the appellant s registrations under these two classes.
