the shebait for the time being is the only person competent to safeguard the interests of the idol his possession of the dedicated property is the possession of the idol whose sevait he is and no dealing of his with the property dedicated to the idol could afford the basis of a claim by him for adverse possession of the property against the idol.
of the said premises.
grey street No 401.
by an order made by this court on the 24th may 1953 the petition of the idol for filing cross objections in this court was allowed to be treated as a petition for special leave to appeal against that part of the decree which was against it subject to any question as to limitation.
regards the second contention viz the adverse possession of nagendra it is to be noted that under the terms of cl 3 of the will of dwarka nath the representatives successors and heirs of his two sons rajendra and jogendra were successively to perform the seva in the manner therein mentioned and nagendra was one of the heirs and legal representatives of rajendra.
41 grey street to the idol was an absolute dedication.
No 41 and No 401.
of the said sri sri issur sridhar jew salagram sila thakur and on the death of my said two sons their representatives successors and heirs shall successively perform the sheba in the aforesaid manner and the executors appointed by this will of mine having got the said two properties registered in the calcutta municipality in the name of the said sri sri issur sridhar jew thakur shall pay the municipal taxes etc.
probate of the will of dwarka nath was also obtained by jogendra on the 31st august 1909.
the appeal and the cross objections came on for hearing before harries c j and section n banerjee j who delivered judgment on the 5th march 1951 dismissing the said appeal and allowing the cross objection in regard to rs 19000 filed by the idol against the appellants.
the first contention of the appellants therefore fails and we hold that the dedication of the premises.
they are to be registered in the municipal records in the name of the deity the municipal bills have got to be taken also in his name and none of the testator 's representatives heirs successors executors administrators or assigns is to have any manner of interest in or right to the said premises or is to be competent to give away or effect sale mortgage etc.
41 a and 402 a grey street were its absolute properties and for possession thereof for a declaration that the consent decree dated the 24th november 1910 in suit No 969 of 1909 and the award dated the 12th october 1920 and the dealings made by the heirs of jogendra.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
on the 10th june 1891 he made and published his last will and testament whereby he dedicated to this family idol.
41 grey street allotted to the branch of rajendra was subsequently numbered 41 a grey street.
dutt and durga charan dutt for a sum of rs 19000.
this is an appeal on a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution from a judgment and decree passed by the appellate bench of the high court of calcutta.
the learned judge however dismissed the suit of the idol in regard to the premises.
with a view to provide for the expenses of his daily and periodical sheba and festivals etc.
they thus became entitled to the whole of the premises which had been purchased at the auction sale held on the 9th december 1936.
that he did act as such shebait and that his possession of the premises.
the second mortgage was executed on the 4th june 1926 and the third mortgage on the 22nd february 1927.
his two elder brothers jnanendra and bhupendra were declared to be the then sevayats but a right was reserved to nagendra to join with them as a sevayat on his attaining majority.
of the deity.
appeal dismissed.
a consent decree was passed in the said suit on the 9th september 1929.
grey street by adverse possession.
the further contention urged on behalf of the appellants in regard to the disallowance of the sum of rs 19000 by the appeal court could not be and was not seriously pressed before us and does not require any consideration.
the property may be given out and out to the idol or it may be subjected to a charge in favour of the idol.
shree shree iswar sridhar jew his two immoveable properties to wit.
the said suit was heard by mr justice bose who declared the premises.
it was further contended that nagendra by virtue of the award dated the 12th october 1920 claimed to be absolutely entitled to the premises.
he was no doubt a minor on the 24th november 1910 when the terms of settlement were arrived at between the parties to the suit 1909.
true any heir or perhaps any descendant of the founder can bring a suit.
the high court rejected the said application stating that there was no rule allowing cross objections in the supreme court.
this argument however can not avail the appellants.
disputes arose between bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra the sons of rajendra and one kedar nath ghosh was appointed arbitrator to settle those disputes.
hari pada.
the 3 12 cattahs three and half cattahs of rent free land more or less that i have on that very.
