the division bench further held that since the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there was no material to show that any warning had been issued to the respondent before he was discharged from service.
we expressed our view in the court and suggested to mr vimal dave counsel for the respondent that if he agreed the original writ petition of the respondent could be dismissed without directing him to refund the amount which he had already been paid by the appellants in pursuance to the orders of the high court and of this court as during the pendency of the appeal.
while he was posted at surat as deputy engineer he was transferred to ukai subdivision under the order of the superintending engineer dated 29th march1974 pursuant to the order of transfer he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974 to enable him to join at ukai.
the registered cover containing the letter dated 24 4 1974 was returned back by the postal authorities with an endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
in the absence of any stay of the transfer order a public servant has no justification to avoid or evade the transfer order merely on the ground of having made a representation or on the ground of his difficulty in moving from one place to the other.
no 113 the learned single judge as well as the division bench both erred in law in setting aside the order of discharge.
the object and purpose of giving warning is to remind the delinquent employee that if he continues to be absent from duty he would be liable to action under regulation 113 and to afford him an opportunity to make amends by joining his duty.
vimal dave learned counsel appearing for the respondent to obtain instructions as aforesaid.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
meanwhile the chief engineer by his order dated 27th may1974 discharged the respondent from service with effect from 31st march1974 in accordance with service regulation no 113 the respondent challenged the validity of the order of his discharge from service by means of a writ petition under article 226 of the constitution before the high court of gujarat.
we are constrained to note that instead of utilizing the opportunity granted to him for filing written submissions the respondent has misused adjournments for the purposes of raising frivolous objections for getting the case transferred to some other bench.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants but it allowed the respondent 's appeal.
no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place.
firstly even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there is no dispute that the superintending engineer 's letter dated 18th april1974 had been served on him.
we refused to accede to his request as oral heating had already been completed and the matter had been adjourned only to enable the respondent 's counsel to obtain instructions.
the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the officers of the board and the respondent clearly show that the respondent disobeyed the order of transfer and he remained absent from duty in an unauthorised manner without obtaining sanction of leave.
this appeal came up for hearing before us on 28th january1988 and on that day.
no doubt the presumption is rebuttable and it is open to the party concerned to place evidence before the court to rebut the presumption by showing that the address mentioned on the cover was incorrect or that the postal authorities never tendered the registered letter to him or that there was no occasion for him to refuse the same.
by that letter warning as contemplated by regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent.
the above rule provides that if an employee of the gujarat electricity board continues to remain absent from duty or overstays the period of sanctioned leave and in spite of warning he fails to return to duty he renders himself liable to be discharged summarily from service without complying with the procedure prescribed for taking disciplinary action under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
the aforesaid documents leave no room for any doubt that the respondent was reminded of his failure to join his duties at ukai and he was further reminded that his unauthorised absence had exposed him to disciplinary action.
sh b k mehta advocate appearing for the appellants and sh.
sub transfer from surat to ukai.
there is no dispute that the respondent received the aforesaid letter as he sent a reply to the superintending engineer on april 201974a copy of which was annexed as annexure j by the petitioner to his petition before the high court.
in fact during the tenure of his service in the board the respondent had been transferred from one place to another place several times.
instead he made a representation to the additional chief engineer on 8 4 1974 after the transfer order.
we do not agree with the view taken by the division bench.
however in the interest of justice we permitted the respondent to file written submissions if any in support of his case.
the division bench upheld the order of the learned single judge holding the order of discharge illegal and void but it set aside the order of the learned single judge refusing to grant consequential relief instead it directed the appellants to reinstate the respondent and to treat him in service without any break in service and to grant him benefits of increments seniority and promotion to which he may be entitled under the rules.
the respondent has been paid a sum of rs 104170 towards salary under the interim orders of this court.
this finding is wholly misconceived.
there would be no order as to costs.
if the order of transfer is not stayed modified or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
the chief engineer discharged the respondent from service as he had continued to remain absent from duty w e f. march 301974 to may 271974.
