learned senior counsel appearing for the contesting respondent submitted that the order of the high court does not require any reconsideration by this court and that the high court while extending the benefit of pob act had clearly recorded in the order that the counsel for the state of delhi is not averse to the grant of benefit of probation to the answering respondent and therefore the requirement under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the state and that the high court took into consideration the fact that the answering respondent has faced the agony of trial for over 12 years and has also undergone some period in custody and while maintaining the conviction of the answering respondent the benefit of probation was extended to him.
the high court while passing the impugned order and judgment did not take into consideration that the accused respondent has been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997 by the court of metropolitan magistrate patiala house new delhi.
1 when any person is found guilty of having committed an offence not punishable with death or imprisonment for life and the court by which the person is found guilty is of opinion that having record to the circumstances of the case including the nature of the offence and the character of the offender it is expedient to release him on probation of good conduct then notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force the court may instead of sentencing him at once to any punishment direct that he be released on his entering into a bond with or without sureties to appear and receive sentence when called upon during such period not exceeding three years as the court may direct and in the meantime to keep the peace and be of good behaviour provided that the court shall no direct such release of an offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety if any has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
in the said case the accused has been convicted under sections 332461 of the dmc act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with fine of rs 5000 in our view there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of pob act particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in delhi despite strict direction of the municipal authorities and despite of the courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized construction.
the court observed as under if any report is filed by the probation officer the court is bound to consider it.
the additional sessions judge new delhi also in civil appeal no 7 of 2002 annexure p 2 dismissed the appeal as there is no infirmity in the order of the trial court and uphold the conviction order passed by the trial court on the point of sentence.
if he withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side then he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well on the opposite party.
we have no hesitation to say that a person whose case is based on falsehood has no right to approach the court and he can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the high court before extending the benefit of pob act to the accused did not call for a report from the authorities to check upon the conduct of the accused respondent as per section 42 of the pob act and that the appellant mcd was also not given time to file their counter affidavit on the question of sentence.
municipal corporation of delhi aggrieved against the judgment and final order dated 26 03 2004 passed by the high court delhi in criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 by which order the high court gave the benefit of probation under section 4 of the probation of offenders act1958.
such a previous convict can not be released in view of section 4 of the pob act.
it was also contended that before making any order under section 41 of the pob act the court shall take into consideration the report if any of the probation officer concerned in relation to the case which the high court has miserably failed to do so.
in the said case the accused respondent was convicted under section 332461 of the dmc act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with a fine of rs 5000.
it is contended that he is first offender.
it was further submitted that the high court should not have waived off the payment of fine amount by the accused respondent and that the high court ought to have taken into consideration that the respondent has been in jail for only three days and had not put in substantial period in custody.
since the appellant mcd was not given any opportunity by the high court to file conduct report of the respondent the order impugned in this appeal is liable to be set aside.
the words if any would only cover a case where notwithstanding such requisition the probation officer for one reason or other has not submitted a report.
it applied to all kinds of offenders whether under or above 21 years of age.
therefore learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant prayed that order dated 26 3 2004 in crl.
appeal allowed.
convict remained for sentence.
the second respondent is a previous convict as per the records placed before us.
one mr m k verma.
in fact as could be seen from the annexures filed along with this appeal the respondent has been convicted for offence under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act.
would therefore be illegal.
the word shall in sub section 2 of section 4 is mandatory and the consideration of the report of the probationer officer is a condition precedent to the release of the accused as reported in the case of state v naguesh g shet govenkar and anr air 1970.
we however part with this case with heavy heart expressing our strong disapproval of the conduct and behaviour but direct that the second respondent to pay a sum of rs 10000 by way of cost to the appellant herein.
power of court to release certain offenders on probation of good conduct.
the second respondent in our opinion was not justified in suppressing the material fact that he was convicted by the magistrate on an earlier occasion.
goa 49 1969 indlaw goa 8 and a release without such a report.
besides that he has already undergone some period in custody.
the brief facts leading to the filing of the above appeal are as under.
rev pet.
lj noc 20 mad.
hence request declined.
such exercise of discretion needs a sense of responsibility.
pw 4junior engineer civil line zone visited 189 prem gali punja sharif mori gate where he found unauthorized construction going at the first floor of the said plot.
he is not doing any business due to his bad health.
this plea can not be entertained in this court.
fine deposited.
2 before making any order under sub section.
