the contention of the appellants to the effect that their properties should have been attached only towards the liabilities incurred by the parties in respect of the transactions made during the statutory period can not be accepted as all the appellants being notified the attachment of the assets would be automatic.
in any view of the matter the learned judge special court having not dealt with the question as regard the mode and manner of disbursements of the amount so far as the tax liabilities of the appellants are concerned elaborately the same requires fresh determination in the light of the decision of this court in harshad shantilal mehta.
the ratio of the said decision as regard applicability of the limitation act was further considered by a division bench of this court in fairgrowth investments ltd v custodian 2004 11 scc 472 2004 indlaw sc 868 wherein it was held that section 5 of the limitation act will have no application in relation to an application falling under sub s 2 of section 4 of the act stating it is enough for the purpose of this appeal to hold that section 292 of the limitation act 1963 does not apply to proceedings under section 42 of the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities act 1992.
the question as to whether the appellants could have been considered to be part of harshad mehta group by the learned special court need not be determined by us as at present advised in view of the fact that appropriate applications in this behalf are pending consideration before the learned special court.
the misc.
the books of accounts and other documents on the basis whereof the auditor 's report had been made having not been allowed to be inspected by the appellants herein on the plea that they had the knowledge thereabout the same could not have been taken into consideration for the purpose of passing of the impugned order or otherwise.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
the said order however was modified and clarified by an order dated 5th may 2004 that the same shall not apply to the sale of commercial properties in view of the order of the learned judge special court dated 17th october 2003 wherein it was pointed out that the notified parties did not dispute the commercial properties being put to sale by the custodian.
in respect of the question No 3 it was opined that the date of distribution arrives when the special court completes the examination of claims under section 9 a and if on that date any tax liability for the statutory period is legally assessed and the assessment is final and binding on a notified person that liability would be considered for payment section 111a.
deepika mehta rs 120 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
the following liabilities shall be paid or discharged in full as far as may be in the order as under a all revenues taxes cesses and rates due from the persons notified by the custodian under sub s 2 of section 3 to the central government or any state government or any local authority b all amounts due from the person so notified by the custodian to any bank or financial institution or mutual fund and c any other liability as may be specified by the special court from time to time.
but in this case the orders of assessment have been set aside.
he has proceeded on the basis that even if the assets and liabilities of all individuals is taken on an individual basis the liabilities would exceed assets in the case of each individual and corporate entity.
the flats however during pendency of these appeals have been sold in auction.
the learned judge special court may therefore proceed to pass an appropriate order as regard confirmation of the sale of such properties.
tax liability.
several charts have been filed before us by the appellants to show i liabilities have been exaggerated by the custodian.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra.
ixthe sale of commercial property had never been seriously contested by the appellants and in fact the contention of the appellants herein before the special court was that if the commercial properties were sold there would be no need to sell the residential properties.
it is not in dispute that the said applications are pending for consideration before the special court.
the parties shall file their respective documents within one week thereafter.
whether the special court has the power to absolve a notified person from payment of penalty or interest for a period subsequent to the date of his notification section in the alternative is a notified person liable to payment of penalty or interest arising from his inability to pay taxes after his notification.
section 5 provides for establishment of the special court.
late harshad mehta rs 11829 crores.
the appellants herein and the said.
the act.
in our opinion the learned judge special court should have analysed the respective contentions of the parties in greater details and in particular in regard to assets and liabilities of the separate entities and having regard to the contentions raised by them that they are not part of the harshad mehta group and their individual liabilities can be met from the assets held and possessed by them separately.
it is interesting to note that the properties belonging to the mother of harshad mehta has since been released from attachment.
in the context of section 112 therefore the taxes due refer to taxes as finally assessed.
as regard the tax liabilities of the appellants herein we would request the learned judge special court to consider the matter afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
in view of our foregoing discussions we are of the opinion that i the contention of the appellants that they being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could not have been proceeded in terms of the provisions of the act can not be accepted in view of the fact that they have been notified in terms thereof.
neither the words on and from the date of notification nor the word property lead to the conclusion that what is attached is not only that property which the notified person owned or was possessed of on the date of the notification but also all such property as he might acquire at any time thereafter.
such subsequent events could also be taken into consideration for the purpose of review.
in these appeals we are concerned with sale of eight residential flats in a building known as madhuli.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
lifting the corporate veil.
allegedly therein it was shown that the individuals had received large loans advances credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees.
these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
in the former event even if such a decree is set aside the interest of the bona fide purchaser in an auction sale is saved.
the parties shall file the written submissions filed before this court together with all charts before the learned special judge special court within eight weeks from date.
application nos.
if the liabilities of the individual entities are not treated as that of the group for one reason or the other indisputably liability of those who have nothing to do with the dealings of harshad mehta either in their individual capacities or as directors of some company or otherwise must be dealt with separately.
the appellants however raised the following contentions i that the statement prepared by the custodian and exhibited as c to his affidavit in rejoinder dated 1 october 2003 was based on material at least all of which were not connected to the appellants as were pointed out before the court.
so long such orders of assessment are not passed by the competent assessing authorities it can not be said that the appellants are liable to pay a huge amount by way of income tax dues on the basis of such orders of assessment which have since been set aside.
mr ashok h desai learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the custodian on the other hand would inter alia submit.
it was enacted for dealing with an extra ordinary situation in the sense that any person who was involved in any offence relating to transaction of any security may be notified whereupon all his properties stand attached.
although a remedy is barred a defence can be raised.
it exceeds rs 63 crores.
the special court may in these cases scale down the tax liability to be paid out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
even in this behalf it was necessary for the special judge to assign sufficient and cogent reasons.
1998 indlaw sc 732 supra.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
at what point of time should the taxes have become due.
even to say that such interpretation would reduce a notified person to beggary would not be accurate because the alms that he received being his property would stand attached.
we must however notice that reliance was sought to be placed on the said judgment wherein reference was made to a bombay high court judgment in hitesh shantilal mehta v union of india.
before us mr desai had filed a chart for showing the same.
the learned special court having not arrived at such a finding this court is not in a position to go into the correctness or otherwise thereabout.
however the finalization shall be subject to the result of these appeals.
taxes which are not legally assessed or assessments which have not become final and binding on the assessee are not covered under section 112a because unless it is an ascertained and quantified liability disbursement can not be made.
thus the total value of the assets as per the affidavit filed on behalf of the custodian of harshad mehta group is rs 9727332166 94.
such claims may also be preferred.
further contention of the custodian is that even dr hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta have admitted that they had no knowledge about the transactions.
it is furthermore not in dispute that in a large number of cases the appellate authorities have set aside best judgment assessments.
it is no doubt true that the law of limitation bars a remedy but not a right.
one of the flats being flat.
with the aforementioned observations and directions these appeals are allowed.
therefore all the properties belonging to them stand attached.
this was not done.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
as the said question has not been gone into by the learned judge special court it is necessary that the same be considered and appropriately dealt with.
the said chart however shows that at least mrs deepika mehta held assets more than her liabilities.
residential property.
section 11 of the act reads as under discharge of liabilities.
sub s 2 of section 3 postulates that the custodian may on being satisfied on information received that any person has been involved in any offence relating to transactions in securities after the 1st day of april 1991 and on and before 6th june 1992 the statutory period notify the name of such person in the official gazette.
proceedings before the special court.
it does not appear that claims inter se between the entities within the so called group had ever been taken into consideration.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
no credit for rs 1227 crores released to revenue on interest are given by the custodian.
in board of control for cricket in india and another v netaji cricket club and others 2005 4 scc 741 2005 indlaw sc 1243.
provisions.
this also indicates that no separate notification or order in regard to the attachment is necessary.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
they at this stage can not be permitted to turn round and contend that they have nothing to do with the liabilities of late harshad mehta.
the intent and purport of parliament enacting the said act furthermore must be given its full effect.
the said irregularities and malpractices led to the diversion of funds from banks and financial institutions to the individual accounts of certain brokers.
his death has also forced upon him bankruptcy.
section 9 a which was inserted by act 24 of 1994 with effect from 25th january 1994 confers all such jurisdiction powers and authority as were exercisable immediately before such commencement by any civil court in relation to the matter specified therein.
since the appellant 's petition of objection had been filed much beyond the period prescribed under that section the special court was right in rejecting the petition in limine.
in janak raj v gurdial singh and anr.
a sur rejoinder thereto was filed on 15 october 2003 and in paragraphs 1 to 6 thereof the said statements were denied and disputed.
if those individuals who had no connection with harshad mehta could not have been proceeded against for meeting the liabilities of harshad mehta jointly or severally a clear finding was required to be arrived at.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
in tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon and another 1997 9 scc 123 1996 indlaw sc 2403 this court held in our view the terms of sub s 3 of section 3 are clear.
impugned judgment.
we may further notice that the learned special court relied upon a decision in custodian v union of india and ors.
but for such protection the properties which are sold in court auctions would not fetch a proper price and the decree holder himself would suffer.
conclusion.
it must refer to an ascertained liability for payment of taxes quantified in accordance with law.
the appeal is accordingly dismissed but without any order as to costs.
provided that no contract or agreement shall be cancelled except after giving to the parties to the contract or agreement a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
such documents should be supported by affidavits.
a special statute providing for special or no period of limitation must receive a liberal and broader construction and not a rigid or a narrow one.
however nexus between several persons in dealing with the matter may be established by the custodian.
the learned judge special court shall take up the matter relating to confirmation of the auction sale in respect of the commercial properties immediately and pass an appropriate order thereupon within four weeks from the date of receipt of copy of this order.
by reason thereof the property that belongs to a notified person stands attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification that makes him a notified party.
the amount of priority demand of income tax liabilities comes to rs 18297576248.
see zain ul abdin khan v muhammad asghar ali khan 15 ia 12 1887 indlaw pc 13.
vi drawing our attention to a representative chart showing the discrepancies in the accounts of mrs deepika a mehta as shown in a affidavit by the custodian b books of accounts maintained by the appellants and c auditor 's report it was submitted that the auditor 's report could not have been relied upon.
lucknow and others.
the question however before us is as to whether any contention which may not have a direct bearing with the question as to whether the special court could entertain their applications for de notifications could be raised by way of defence.
the appellants shall be entitled to take the help of a chartered or cost accountant and may make notes therefrom for their use in the pending proceeding.
while a purposive interpretation is permissible where two interpretations are possible the purposive interpretation must be such as preserves the constitutionality of the provision.
this court therefore has laid down a law that mere filing of an appeal is not sufficient particularly when there is no order of stay on recovery has been granted and the demand is outstanding.
such hearing in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case should continue from day to day.
air 1968 all 246 1967 indlaw all 16 but as observed hereinbefore.
ii liabilities have been shown in relation to unperformed contracts.
