in his examination in chief pw 1 has said that whenever his daughter came to her parental home she used to complain that she was being subjected to harassment by the appellants on account of some domestic reasons and further that her husband appellant no 1 had told her that while coming back from her parental home she should bring rs 1000 1200 for expenses and for manure as he had no sufficient money.
p c which was recorded on the very next day of the death of bhimabai this witness did not state that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
this appeal by special leave has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of bombay high court aurangabad bench by which the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed and their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc and sentence of 7 years ri imposed thereunder by the learned sessions judge aurangabad was affirmed.
in view of the aforesaid definition of the word dowry any property or valuable security should be given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties.
in her statement under section 161 cr.
he then went to the house of the appellant and saw bhimabai lying with froth coming out of her mouth.
he has deposed that in the marriage he had given rs 20000 as dowry.
the appellant No 2 kadubai is the mother of the appellant No 1 and both the appellants were residing in the same house in village palshi.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
pw 5 sumanbai has deposed that bhimabai was receiving ill treatment as a result of domestic cause and to a specific question put by the court as to what she meant by domestic cause she gave a reply that there was a demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
pw 1 tukaram lodged the fir of the incident at 7 00 p m on 16 september 1991 at p s chikalthana on the basis of which case crime No 144 of 1991 was registered against the appellants under sections 498 a 306 and 304 b ipc.
the last time bhimabai visited her parental home was on the occasion of the festival of nag panchami and she had complained that she was being ill treated and was sometimes given beating for bringing money from her parents.
the learned sessions judge framed charges under sections 498 a 304 b read with section 34 ipc and section 306 read with section 34 ipc against both the appellants.
it is therefore necessary to briefly examine the evidence of the prosecution witnesses.
sc 3509 1996 indlaw sc 2404 and chemicals and fibres of india v union of india air 1997.
3 sandu police patil of village palshi has deposed that at about 4 20 p m on 15 september 1991 narayan who is uncle of appellant no 1 appasaheb informed him that the wife of appasaheb had expired.
the evidence adduced by the prosecution does not therefore show that any demand for dowry as defined in section 2 of the dowry prohibition act was made by the appellants as what was allegedly asked for was some money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
pw 5 sumanbai is the mother of the deceased bhimabai.
bhimabai had complained to him that she was not being given proper food clothings and even footwear and occasionally the appellant No 1 used to beat her.
appeal allowed.
the report of the post mortem examination was admitted by the defence.
i can not assign any reason why police did not write about it in my statement.
he also admitted that he had not gone to attend that funeral of bhimabai.
she has specifically stated that for a period of six months after the marriage bhimabai was treated well and thereafter she had started complaining about the harassment being caused to her.
the appellant No 2 is on bail.
the explanation appended to sub section 1 of section 304 b ipc says that dowry shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of dowry prohibition act 1961.
being a penal provision it has to be strictly construed.
the witness has further deposed that on the date of incident a man came from village palshi on motorcycle and informed that he should immediately go there as bhimabai was not well.
he shall be released forthwith unless wanted in some other case.
we have heard learned counsel for the appellants learned counsel for the state of maharashtra and have perused the records.
thereafter he gave a report about the incident in writing at the police station.
and that was the cause.
it has been held in state of andhra pradesh v thadi narayan air 1962.
there used to be some bickering in the marital life of bhimabai and her husband on trifling matters.
the viscera were preserved for chemical analysis.
the sureties and bail bonds furnished by her are discharged.
since an essential ingredient of section 304 b ipc viz demand for dowry is not established the conviction of the appellants can not be sustained.
the prosecution in order to establish its case examined six wintesses and filed some documentary evidence.
pw 2 babaji is real brother of father in law of pw 1 tukaram.
dowry is a fairly well known social custom or practice in india.
he has submitted that the insecticide thimet is extensively used by the farmers for preservation of crop and is kept stored in their houses and it could be a case where thimet accidentally got mixed with some food item and was consumed by bhaimabai.
the learned trial judge then sought clarification from the witnesses by putting the following question.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
she has further stated that she did not make any enquiry as to how bhimabai had died.
he then went to village palshi along with other persons of his family where he reached after sun set.
the appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
