he has also pointed out that there were no eye witnesses to the incident and the 4 witnesses i e jora singh and others who had reached the place of incident and carried the injured appellant to the hospital had also resiled and as the prosecution story now rested on circumstantial evidence alone it was imperative for the investigating officer to have taken the finger prints from the weapon and that in any case the recovery of the spent cartridges and the gun were clearly suspicious as the weapon had been sent to the laboratory after an inordinate delay.
it is also clear from the evidence that the two spent cartridge cases recovered one from near mukhtiar kaur 's dead body and the second from the right barrel of the gun lying near the appellant had been sent to the forensic science laboratory which opined that one of the cartridges had been fired from the gun and the other could have been fired therefrom.
it has also been submitted by mr goburdhan that there appeared to be no motive for the incident as the story about mukhtiar kaur 's unhappiness about the transfer of land to the sons of ujjagar singh sought to be proved by pw9 balwinder singh and pw10 karam singh had been disbelieved by the high court with the observation that the statements of these two witnesses could not be relied upon.
i have been implicated in this case falsely.
in 1984 4 scc 116 sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 indlaw sc 432 this court discussed the ratio of the judgments in hanumant v state of m p air 1952 sc 343 1952 indlaw sc 89 tufail alias simmi v state of u p 1969 3 scc 198 1969 indlaw sc 573 and ramgopal v state of maharashtra 1972 4 scc 625 1971 indlaw sc 555 and shivaji sahabrao bobade v state of maharashtra 1973 2 scc 793 1973 indlaw sc 181 and observed thus a close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established 1the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.
it appears that mukhtiar kaur 's relations with her in laws had got strained and she had left her matrimonial home and come to live with ujjagar singh her uncle 7 or 8 months earlier and the suggestion was that mukhtiar kaur had been killed by the appellant with his licensed gun and he had thereafter attempted to commit suicide.
the learned state counsel has however relied on the statement of pw16 dr sanjay uppal who was apparently the first doctor to have examined the appellant wherein he clearly testified that the blackened portion around the firearm injury had been removed by him.
e in modi 's medical jurisprudence and toxicology 23rd edition at page 765 while dealing with identification of homicidal and suicidal injuries it has been observed that a suicidal firearm wound is usually a contact wound situated on the side of the temple depending on which hand was used to shoot himself in the centre of the forehead the roof of the mouth in the chest or epigastrium in front or the left side and some times under the chin.
we have considered the submission of the state counsel very carefully.
with this modification the appeal is dismissed.
it may be noted here that this court indicated that the circumstances concerned must or should and not may be established.
during the trial jora singh pw1 satnam singh pw2 gurdeep singh pw3 and kulwant singh pw4 resiled from their statements given to the police and were declared hostile.
we accordingly acquit the appellant of the charge section 376 of the ipc but maintain his conviction for the other offences but commute his death sentence to life.
it has also been submitted that in a case of attempted suicide a firearm must of necessity be used from a very close range and the absence of any blackening charring or burning around the wound on ujjagar singh clearly ruled out the possibility of such an attempt.
there was no other person.
some body suddenly came and fired at me.
balwinder singh pw9 however supported the prosecution case deposing that the land had in fact been got transferred from gurmail kaur mother of mukhtiar kaur to ujjagar singh by fraud and mukhtiar kaur was therefore entitled to its return.
the evidence also reveals that the appellant was living in the premises along with his wife mother and son and two daughters who were studying outside the village were frequent visitors but it is the admitted position that nobody but the appellant and the deceased were present at the time of incident.
we are however of the opinion as already noted above that a case of rape has not been made out.
blackening or charring is possible when a shot is fired from a distance of about 2 feet to 3 feet.
reference has been made to raj kumar prasad tamarkar 's case2007 indlaw sc 5 supra wherein in circumstances surprisingly akin to the present matter this court had the following observations to make the conspectus of the events which had been noticed by the learned sessions judge as also by the high court categorically go to show that at the time when the occurrence took place the deceased and the respondent only were in the bedroom and the terrace connecting the same.
we are further of the opinion that even assuming for a moment that sexual intercourse between the two had indeed taken place it can not be said from the evidence before us that it was without the consent or against the wishes of mukhtiar kaur.
first the place of incident being adjoining rooms in the residential house of the appellant and the fact that the alleged murder weapon is his licensed dbbl gun is proved on record.
balwinder singh her husband was addicted to vices and used to beat her due to which she used to remain under depression and sick generally and used to come to me as my daughter.
puran singh had died about 20 years earlier leaving behind his wife two sons and a daughter mukhtiar kaur.
with knife throat and wrist are the favourite sites.
in this background the death sentence is not called for.
in homicidal and accidental shooting the wound may be on any part of the body and the path of the bullet may be in any direction.
the prosecution case was then put to the accused and his statement recorded section.
we find from the medical evidence and from the chemical examiner 's reports that the vaginal swab and clothes taken from the dead body did indicate the presence of semen.
the learned state counsel relying on the statement of pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh has however submitted that the examination had not been possible as the appellant had received a very serious gun shot injury and was hanging between life and death.
pjj wherein marks of a shot hitting the roof were seen at point e whereas the appellant was found lying at point d in the same room.
even i do not know who took me to hospital.
on the completion of the investigation a charge sheet under sections 302 376 and 309 of the ipc was filed against the accused and as he pleaded not guilty he was brought to trial.
a few facts stand out from the prosecution story.
the fact that the shot was fired from below going upwards is also supported by the site plan exh.
hesitation injuries are also observed in some suicide cases.
mr goburdhan the learned counsel for the accused has raised several arguments in the course of hearing.
we therefore find that ujjagar singh 's conviction section 376 of the ipc can not be sustained.
i fell down on the ground and became unconscious.
it goes a long way to show that the same must have been done by a person who wanted to kill the deceased from a short distance.
the autopsy report shows that a blackening and charring existed so far as injury no i is concerned.
i never harassed mukhtiar kaur nor ever got her land mutated from her mother by fraud.
i have not killed mukhtiar kaur.
