u s 28 of the trade marks act1999registration gives to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the trade marks act.
to complete the chronology of events it may be pointed out that after the impugned decision of the tribunal dated 11 4 2000the appellants herein moved an application for rectification on 12 5 2000 rom no 722000 in that application it was urged on behalf of the appellants herein that the said brand name meghraj did not belong to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd that the department has failed to discharge its burden to prove that the trade name meghraj belonged to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd that a mere agreement between m section ltd and m section rich food products p ltd would not be sufficient to prove that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the lawful owner of the brand name.
this contention was rejected by the commissioner a on the ground that under the notification no 193 ce as amended exemption was not available to the specified goods bearing brand name or trade name registered or not of another person.
it was clearly provided that the mark monarch belonged to the respondent company that kipre and co private ltd were only to manufacture the food products as ordered by the respondent company and that the food products so manufactured were to be bottled and packed by them for its use and benefit and that therefore in spite of kipre and co 's name appearing on the labels the respondent company was the true proprietor of the mark monarch and that therefore it was entitled to apply for its registration as proprietor thereof.
under the said agreement m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was.
we do not find any merit in this argument.
in the present case we are concerned with the retrospective effect of the certificate issued by the registrar of trade marks on 30 6 2000 with effect from 30 9 91.
the first trade marks act in england was passed in 1875 even prior thereto it was firmly established in england that a trader acquired a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade and that he was entitled to protect such right of property by appropriate proceedings by way of injunction in a court of law.
in the present case there is no evidence from the side of the appellants indicating abandonment of the trade mark by m s although madan verma the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd has filed his affidavit enclosing the registration certificate he has nowhere stated that m s ltd has abandoned the trade mark.
accordingly the commissioner a dismissed the appeals.
the object of the exemption notification no 193 ce was to grant benefits to those industries which do not have the advantage of a brand name.
apparently in such a case there is no question of infringement of any right of property in a trade mark for which any relief is sought nor is there any question of passing off so that it might be necessary to enter into questions of nicety as regards whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark.
these are considerations which are relevant in disputes arising under the trade marks act.
the department has rightly placed reliance on the agreement of 23 11 89 in the circumstances the burden was on the assessee appellants herein to satisfy the adjudicating authority that there was no intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
instead of compelling the holder of a trade mark in every case to prove his proprietary right before he could ask the court to grant him an injunction the trade marks act provides a procedure whereby by registering his trade mark the owner gets certain facilities in the mode of proving his title.
unquestionably the applicant 's user was not large but that fact makes no difference because so far as this country is concerned the mark was a new mark in respect of the class of goods in respect of which the applicant used it.
the mark can be originated by a person or can be acquired but in all cases it is necessary that the person putting forward the application should be in possession of some proprietary right which if questioned can be substantiated.
he came to the conclusion vide his orders that the trade name meghraj was in the form of a logo printed on the wrapper of the biscuits and therefore the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 as amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 consequently the adjudicating authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992.
under the agreement.
our trade marks law is based on the english trade marks law and the english acts.
before concluding we may refer to the judgment of this court in the case of commissioner of central excise mumbai v bigen industries ltd 2006 197.
by order dated 8 12 2000cegat rejected the above rectification application made by the appellants.
as a matter of fact the statute enabled a person to have registered a mark not only which he had been using but also a mark which he proposed to use.
the name of that director is madan verma.
it was declared that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
in the present case there is no deed or assignment from m s ltd to the m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd appellants herein as stated above there is no proof of acquisition on payment or consideration by the appellants to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd in the present case there is no evidence of assignment or licence from m s ltd to the appellants.
the appellants claimed that it has been using the wrapper since beginning and since 1991 the use of the trade name or brand name meghraj has never been challenged.
in short it was a competition between a foreign trader and the indian importer for the proprietorship of that mark in this country.
then turning to the label as it stood at the date of the application two names appeared on the label one of kipre and co and the other of the respondent company.
it was urged that merely because an agreement stood entered into on 22 11 89 between m s ltd.
305 2006 indlaw sc 546 in that matter a show cause notice was issued calling upon the assessee to show cause why the exemption be not denied to the assessee.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
even so far as this country is concerned the trade marks act of 1940 does not seem to have made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark as established by the courts of chancery in england.
hence these civil appeals.
mr shah however contended that by an agreement exhibit f made between the respondent company and kipre and co private ltd in 1951.
and therefore they were entitled to exemption.
this question has been decided by the bombay high court in the case of sunder parmanand lalwani and others v caltex india ltd air 1969 bombay 24 1965 indlaw mum 1419 in which it has been held vide paras 32 and 38 as follows a proprietary right in a mark can be obtained in a number of ways.
prior to the acts one could become a proprietor of a trade mark only by user but after the passing of the act of 1875one could become a proprietor either by user or by registering the mark even prior to its user.
fb registration under the statute does not confer any new right to the mark claimed or any greater right than what already existed at common law and at equity without registration.
the assistant commissioner ghaziabad examined the printed wrappers.
in the present case the facts are entirely different.
it is confined to the provisions of the trade marks act.
ltd v. commissioner of central excise delhi 2005 189.
in india the mark caltex was a totally new mark for watches and allied goods.
this aspect is important since one of the arguments advanced by the appellants herein before the commissioner a was that the trade mark belonged to m s ltd which was registered ssi unit lying closed since 1 3 1993.
this court has held that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
registration itself does not create a trade mark.
251937and an application for registration had been made and refused.
explanation ix brand name or trade name shall mean a brand name or trade name whether registered or not that is to say a name or a mark such as symbol monogram label signature or invented word or writing which is used in relation to such specified goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between such specified goods and some person using such name or mark with or without any indication of the identity of that person.
this argument is based on the concept of abandonment.
but that is not the case.
all that was necessary for the plaintiff to prove was that he had used that mark in respect of his particular type of goods.
in the circumstances the department was right in rejecting the above contention.
the trader who adopts such a mark is entitled to protection directly the article having assumed a vendible character is launched upon the market.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
elt 257 2005 indlaw sc 799sc.
gaw kan lye v saw kyone saing air 1939.
rang 343.
emphasis supplied.
in in re century spinning and manufacturing co ltd. 49 bom lr 52.
as regards the question whether there could be any property in a trade mark the learned judge further observed on the same page as follows again turning to s 54 of the specific relief act which deals with cases when a perpetual injunction may be granted the explanation to that section lays down that for the purpose of that section a trade mark is property.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
in the case of pahwa chemicals pvt.
however since retrospective nature of the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 is repeatedly being raised in this court we would like to examine the case law in this regard.
the object of the notification therefore was to help the ssi units and thereby increased industrial production.
the same is quoted hereinbelow.
see observations of llyod jacob j in 1956 rpc 1 in the matter of vitamins ltd 's application for trade mark at p 12and.
a person may become a proprietor of a trade mark in diverse ways.
the orders of the commissioner a have been confirmed by order dated 11 4 2000 passed by cegat.
in para 19 of the show cause notice the authority accepted the existence of a deed of assignment.
as between two competitors who are each desirous of adopting such a markit is to use familiar language entirely a question of who gets there first.
this deeming fiction can not be extended to the excise law.
this was precisely the view which was expressed by lord justice romer in 1905 1 k b 592 to which i have already referred in the earlier part of the judgment.
several authorities were cited and were considered and principles deduced and relied upon in that behalf.
discontinuation of business in respect of a product does not necessarily amount to abandonment.
