the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents herein were cancelled inter alia on the premise that the same had been done without the knowledge of the revenue department of the state.
it is for this reason that we base our decision on the ground that independent of any statutory right available to the appointees and assuming for the purpose of this case that the rights flow only from the contract of appointment the impugned circular issued in exercise of the executive power of the state must satisfy art 14 of the constitution and if it is shown to be arbitrary it must be struck down.
the said shri tayeng retired on 28 02 1998 despite the fact that he in his uo note dated 12 02 1998 addressed to the minister of revenue denied to have made any appointment when approached by the writ petitioners respondents he affirmed in their support an affidavit in the high court stating 3 that while i was functioning as revenue commissioner manipur matters relating to appointment on the recommendation of the d p c transfer etc were put up to me in files and i used to pass order on the basis of facts presented to me in file.
it is true that where appointments had been made by a competent authority or at least some steps have been taken in that behalf the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with in view of the decision of this court in murugayya udayar 1991 indlaw sc 904 supra.
the commissioner of revenue department was conferred with a power of being the cadre controlling authority for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
we may on the other hand notice that kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 supra has been distinguished by this court in state of u p and others v u p state law officers association and others 1994 2 scc 204 1994 indlaw sc 1289 stating the reliance placed by the respondents in this behalf on shrilekha vidyarthi v state of u p 1990 indlaw sc 463 is misplaced for the obvious reason that the decision relates to the appointment of the district government counsel and the additional assistant district government counsel who are the law officers appointed by the state government to conduct civil criminal and revenue cases in any court other than the high court.
the words dismissed removed and reduced in rank have been used.
the writ petitions filed by the respondents herein were allowed by a learned single judge of the high court opining i the principles of natural justice having not been complied with the impugned orders can not be sustained.
so far as the matter relating to civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005 is concerned it was directed that as the appointment of the respondents were made for a period of six months the employees were only entitled to the salary for the said period.
their appointments are made through open competition from among those who are eligible for appointment and strictly on the basis of merit as evidenced by the particulars of their practice opinions of the district magistrate and the district judge and also after taking into consideration their character and conduct.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
the commissioner as noticed hereinbefore was the chairman of the dpc how the matter was referred to the dpc has not been disclosed.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
any action which had not been taken by an authority competent therefor and in complete violation of the constitutional and legal framework would not be binding on the state.
the said appointments were made on temporary basis.
it was thus for them to establish existence of a legal right in their favour and a corresponding legal duty in the respondents to continue to be employed.
the learned counsel would submit that even in a case of this nature it was incumbent upon the appellants to comply with the principles of natural justice.
one shri a j tayeng was the revenue commissioner of government of manipur.
cl 2 protects government servants against being dismissed or removed or reduced in rank without being given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to them.
the appeals are allowed.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on parshotam lal dhingra v union of india.
in kendriya vidyalaya sangathan 2002 indlaw sc 287 suprait was held it is clear that if after the termination of services of the said dr k c rakesh the orders of appointment are issued such orders are not valid.
satisfaction of this basic test in every state action is sine qua non to its validity and in this respect the state can not claim comparison with a private individual even in the field of contract.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
we may however point out that even in cases where the facts are not all admitted or beyond dispute there is a considerable unanimity that the courts can in exercise of their discretion refuse certiorari prohibition mandamus or injunction even though natural justice is not followed.
temp i dated 17 2 1998.
i therefore deny making of such appointments.
in any event having regard to the fact that the said authority himself had denied to have issued a letter there was no reason for the state not to act pursuant thereto or in furtherance thereof.
1991 supp 1 scc 331 1991 indlaw sc 904 and kumari shrilekha vidyarthi and others v state of u p and others 1991 1 scc 212 1990 indlaw sc 463.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
the term dpc would ordinarily mean the departmental promotion committee.
the latter are not appointed as a part of the spoils system.
the question which arose herein was not raised.
he has been making false and wrong allegations against the commissioner revenue and putting him false position.
his work is also subject to strict supervision.
the posts of field staffs of the revenue department of the state of manipur were thus required to be filled up having regard to the said constitutional scheme.
no records there for were available with the state.
the same can not be supplemented by fresh reasons in the shape of affidavit or otherwise.
he therefore was wholly incompetent to issue the appointment letters.
they are set aside accordingly.
it is necessary to emphasize that the state did not proceed on the basis that the amendment to the rules was not necessary.
air 1958 sc 36 1957 indlaw sc 103murugayya udayar and another.
we as noticed hereinbefore do not know as to under what circumstances the orders of appointments were issued.
wade says that while futile writs may not be issued a distinction has to be made according to the nature of the decision.
shri tayeng by a uo note dated 12 01 1998 denied to have made such an appointment stating confidential u o no 21593 com r pt.
submitted for information and consideration.
as stated above i was transferred and posted to the manipur electronics development corporation during 1997.
the xerox copy of the cyclostyled appointment order bearing no 11497.
