thus in the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case the pleadings of the parties in the writ petition and the judgment of the learned single judge leaves no manner of doubt that it was an order passed u art 226 of the constitution and in that view of the matter the letters patent appeal was maintainable before the high court.
thereafter this court explained the ratio laid down in the case of umaji 's case1986 indlaw sc 651 supra and expressed thus in umaji case it was clearly held that where the facts justify a party in filing an application either u art 226 or 227 of the constitution of india and the party chooses to file his application under both these articles in fairness of justice to party and in order not to deprive him of valuable right of appeal the court ought to treat the application as being made under article 226and if in deciding the matter in the final order the court gives ancillary directions which may pertain to article 227this ought not to be held to deprive a party of the right of appeal under cl 15 of the letters patent where the substantial part of the order sought to be appealed against is u art 226 rule 18 of the bombay high court appellate side rules read with cl 15 of the letters patent provides for appeal to the division bench of the high court from a judgment of the learned single judge passed on a writ petition u art 226 of the constitution.
it was noted as follows.
for determining the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment of the single judge the division bench has to find out whether in substance the judgment has been passed by the learned single judge in exercise of the jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution.
it is true as submitted by learned counsel for the appellant that the order of the learned single judge nowhere stated that the court was considering the writ petition u art 226 of the constitution of india.
u art 226 an order direction or writ is to issue to a person authority or the state.
the high court was therefore not justified in holding that this court 's earlier order only waived the limitation for filing a letters patent appeal.
this court in hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque and ors air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 held that the high court while issuing writ of certiorari u art 226 of the constitution can only annul a decision of a tribunal whereas u art 227 of the constitution it can issue further directions as well.
the writ appeal shall be heard by the division bench on merits.
in umaji keshao meshram v radhikabai air 1986 sc 1272 1986 indlaw sc 651.
the impugned order is set aside.
it is because a single judge has no power under rules 14 and 17 to hear and dispose of a petition u art 226 or 227 that the non obstante clause has been introduced in rule 18 the use of the words be heard and finally disposed of by a single judge in rule 18 merely clarifies the position that in such cases the power of the single judge is not confined merely to issuing a rule nisi.
firstly the writ of certiorari is an exercise of its original jurisdiction by the high court exercise of supervisory jurisdiction is not an original jurisdiction and in this sense it is akin to appellate revisional or corrective jurisdiction.
since we had entertained the special leave petition against the learned single judge 's order it would be appropriate to grant three weeks time to the petitioner to prefer the lpa which if otherwise free from defect shall be entertained for being considered on merits.
by art 226 the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts prior to the commencement of the constitution has been made wider and more extensive and conferred upon every high court.
even when the learned single judge 's order has been passed under both the articles for deciding the maintainability against such an order what would be relevant is the principal or main relief granted by the judgment passed by learned single judge and not the ancillary directions given by him.
u art 226 or u art 227 in.
the learned single judge examined the matter on merit and set aside the orders of the rent controller as well as the resident deputy collector on the ground that the aforesaid judgments were perverse.
in the event in passing his judgment on an application which had mentioned in its cause title both arts 226 and 227the single judge has in fact invoked only his supervisory powers under article 227the appeal under cl 15 would not lie.
as noted above the prayer was to quash the order of assessment passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax levying purchase as well as entry tax.
