the form of injunction granted in favour of the plaintiff respondent is not in terms of the provisions of the copyright act1957 as the appellant as an institution or otherwise is entitled to use the same in terms of clauses ai and l of sub section 1 of section 52 thereof.
p 1 i have already referred to para no 11 of the will while dealing with the topic dramatic works vis vis literary work and therefore if the will is read in its entirety and if we take into account the benefits that flow from the bequest made by dr karanth in favour of the plaintiff it is not as if the plaintiff received the bequest only in respect of the things which form the residuary as mentioned in para 12 of the will but the plaintiff also was given the copyrights in respect of literary works and all books as well as the right to print republished and mark the literary works as well as the books.
provided that where the identity of the author is disclosed before the expiry of the said period copyright shall subsist until sixty years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
the following acts shall not constitute an infringement of copyright namely a a fair dealing with a literary dramatic musical or artistic work not being a computer programme for the purpose of i. private use including research ii criticism or review whether of that work or of any other work xxx xxx xxx i the performance in the course of the activities of an educational institution of a literary dramatic or musical work by the staff and student of the institution or of a cinematograph film or a sound recording if the audience is limited to such staff and students the parents and guardians of the students and persons directly connected with the activities of the institution or the communication to such an audience of a cinematograph film or sound recording.
in sub section 1references to the author shall in the case of a pseudonymous work of joint authorship be construed.
karanth expired on 9 12 1997 yakshagana ballet dance as developed by dr karanth was performed in new delhi on or about 18 9 2001 respondent filed a suit for declaration injunction and damages alleging violation of the copyright in respect of the said dance vested in her in terms of the said will stating that dr karanth developed a new distinctive dance drama troop or theatrical system which was named by him as yaksha ranga which in his own words mean creative extension of traditional yakshagana and thus the appellants infringed the copyright thereof by performing the same at new delhi without obtaining her prior permission.
a where the identity of the authors is disclosed as references to that author.
keeping in view the statutory provisions there can not be any doubt whatsoever that copyright in respect of performance of dance would not come within the purview of the literary work but would come within the purview of the definition of dramatic work.
15000 00 3 directing the defendants to pay to the plaintiff interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a from 18 9 2001 till now which is 95 00.
by reason of a judgment and decree dated 14 11 2003the district judge udupi decreed the said suit declaring the plaintiff respondent as a person having the exclusive copyright in respect of seven prasangas and that she had acquired the same by reason of a will as a residuary legatee and the defendants appellants or their employees or agents were restrained from performing the said seven ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by dr karanth.
therefore the main classification as literary work and dramatic work can not be construed to mean that dramatic work has nothing to do with literary work.
these prasangas are i bhishma vijaya ii nala damayanthi iii kanakangi or kanakangi kalyana iv abhimanyu or abhimanyu vada v chitrangadha or babruvahana kalaga vi panchavati and vii.
with the aforementioned modification in the order of injunction this appeal is dismissed.
malini mallya and she alone shall be entitled to receive royalties of all my books and she shall be entitled to print publish and republish and market the same.
section 52 of the act provides for certain acts which would not constitute an infringement of copyright.
22 term of copyright in published literary dramatic musical and artistic works.
however we may notice that whereas the trial court has proceeded on the basis that clause 12 of the will shall apply in the instant case the high court opined that clause 11 thereof is attracted stating no doubt by reading para 12 of the will in isolation one can certainly arrive at the conclusion that the bequest made in favour of the plaintiff is in the nature of residuary bequest.
no one else shall have any right or claims for the same 12 from time to time i have distributed among my children all gold and silver jewels and ornaments and other valuables which were gifted to me by my friends and admirers.
even so if the viewer after seeing the film gets a totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original play violation of the copyright may be said to be proved.
it was also not a case where respondent in any manner whatsoever waived her right.
yakshagana is a form of ballet dance.
copyrighted material is that what is created by the author by his own skill labour and investment of capital maybe it is a derivative work which gives a flavour of creativity.
and she has cared and looked after me also during my illness which at times had been quite serious enfeebling me for long period.
for the purposes of this clause communication through satellite or cable or any other means of simultaneous communication to more than one household or place of residence including residential rooms of any hotel or hostel shall be deemed to be communication to the public section 2 ffa defines the word composerin relation to a musical work to mean the person who composes the music regardless of whether he records it in any form of graphical notation.
mr g v chandrashekhar learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand would support the impugned judgment.
the high court however directed iii.
he was a director of the appellant institute.
malini mallya who has built it with borrowed money at her cost.
before adverting to the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties we may notice the issues framed in the suit which are i does plaintiff prove that late dr shivaramaji karanth had acquired copyright in respect of seven yakshagana prasangas and also in respect of yakshagana dramatic or theatrical form i e bhishma.
yet again if such performance is conducted before a non paying audience by the appellant which is an institution if it comes within the purview of amateur club or society the same would not constitute any violation of the said order of injunction.
the courts while passing a decree for permanent injunction would avoid multiplicity of proceedings.
whatever movable properties books fittings furniture utensils etc belonging to me into this house manasa and my car and cash money in hand after my death shall go to smt.
4 scc 1181978 indlaw sc 294this court held thus on a careful consideration and elucidation of the various authorities and the case law on the subject discussed above the following propositions emerge 1 there can be no copyright in an idea subject matter themes plots or historical or legendary facts and violation of the copyright in such cases is confined to the form manner and arrangement and expression of the idea by the author of the copyrighted work.
has the plaintiff became entitled to the said right under the registered will dated 18 06 1994.
2 where the same idea is being developed in a different manner it is manifest that the source being common similarities are bound to occur.
in r g anand vs m s delux films ors 1978.
sections 2223 and 521ai and l of the act which are relevant for our purpose read as under.
this work also has brought her deserving fame and appreciation of scholars.
explanation.
the new encyclopaedia britannica vol iv 15th edition provides the following information about dramatic literature.
section 2c defines artistic work to mean i a painting a sculpture a drawing including a diagram map chart or planan engraving or a photograph whether or not any such work possesses artistic quality.
the learned trial judge recognized the equitable interest vested in the plaintiff respondent.
it was stated that dr karanth had composed seven verses or prasangas for staging yaksharanga ballet apart from bringing in changes in the traditional form thereof on its relevant aspects namely raga tala scenic arrangement costumes etc.
malini malya only.
a declaratory decree therefore was passed.
but that is not all in the will ex.
no infringement of the copyright comes into existence.
the derivative work produced by the author must have some distinguishable features and flavour to raw text of the judgments delivered by the court.
appellants are thus before us.
in recognition of her devotion and sincere affection towards me in 1986 i have dedicated one of my novels namelyantida aparanji to her.
indisputably dr kota shivarama karanth for shortdr.
section 2o defines literary work to include computer programmes tables and compilations including computer databases.
ganga charitha.
section 17 of the act deals with first owner of copyrightin terms whereof subject to the provisions of the act the author of a work shall be the owner of the copyright therein.
dramatic literature the texts of plays that can be read as distinct from being seen and heard in performance.
karantha jnanapeeth awardee who was a novelist play writer essayist encyclopediationist cultural anthropologist artist writer of science environmentalist.
ii a work of architecture and iii any other work of artistic craftsmanship.
