The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
Thus the 12 hours  shift at the Alexandra Docks was 8 hours  of duty 3 hours  overtime and one hour variable recess.
They contended that regard being had to the number of actual work hours the case of shore crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks and the Butcher Island could not be compared with that of the crew at the Alexandra Docks or the Flotilla Crew.
The hours of work and the payment of overtime are therefore governed by the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages Central Rules 1950 and the controversy in this case must be appreciated and resolved in accordance with them.
We shall now turn to these provisions.
1 Where an employee whose minimum rate of wages is fixed under this Act by the hour by the day or by such a longer wage period as may be prescribed works on any day in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate fixed under this Act or under any law of the appropriate Government for the time being in force whichever is higher.
There is no definition of interval either in the Act or the Rules but the provisions of section 13 2 c read with section 13 3 give us an indication of what is meant by an interval of rest.
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work which cannot exceed 9 is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
From section 13 read with Rule 24 we know that the number of hours constituting a normal working day is 9.
He can specify the intervals of rest and spread the 8 hours or 9 hours as the case may be together with intervals of rest over 12 hours in a twelvehour shift.
For the hours of rest he is not required to pay overtime but he must specify those hours.
As in the present case the total number of hours of work in a week is 48 8 hours per day for 6 days overtime is payable for that hour or part of an hour beyond the 8 hours in which the workman is either made to work or the interval is not specified.
According to their resolution the recess is fixed as near the middle of the work as possible depending on the tides.
