c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
iii In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing scales or in the scales provided by the Sastry award as modified should be ignored.
ivSubject to rules i to iii a workman s basic pay in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified shall be fixed in the following manner aA workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay of Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale as modified equal to or next above his basic pay as on 1st January 1959 in the scale then in force in the bank concerned hereinafter called the Bank s scale.
bTo the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause a annual increment or increment in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
It will be seen from the above comparison of the provisions in the two awards that the substantial provisions of the Desai award are exactly the same as the provisions of the Sastry award as modified except i for changes necessitated by the fact that the Desai award was being given in 1962 and ii the provision in the Sastry award corresponding to sub cl.
 The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present case was this.
ii of the Desai award the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1 1962.
The bank further claimed that this being the maximum permissible under cl.
It is urged on behalf of the appellant that the Desai award made certain changes and therefore need not be interpreted in the same way as was done in Prakash Chand Mehra s case1.
It is true that the Desai award said that certain changes were being made but these changes were considered necessary having regard to the lapse of time.
ii the adjusted basic pay is to be as on January 1 1962.
Under sub cl.
ii is subject to cl.
b read with sub cl.
iv but this will be subject to cls.
iv and cl.
b read with sub cl.
i and ii.
d cannot be permitted in view of cl.
But as we have held that in cl.
iv will take effect and give two annual increments for 1960 and 1961 which are beyond the date which we have accepted as the right date for purposes of cl.
ii has to be worked out as on January 1 1959 the two increments provided by sub cl.
a b and c of el.
iv of the Desai award.
Therefore two increments under sub cl.
a b and c of el.
iv in accordance with what we have interpreted these sub clauses as well as cls.
d must always be given.
b read with sub cl.
292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision.
He would not be entitled to any increments under sub cls.
Under subcl.
He would not be entitled to any increments under sub cls.
b and c of cl.
iv because he was getting more than what would be his adjusted basic pay under cl.
We make no order as to costs in the circumstances.
We make no order as to costs in the circumstances.
CA 1008 allowed.
CA 1009 dismissed.
