77 M C Bhandare A N Karkhanis Miss Malini Panduval and Mrs section Bhandare for the Appellant.
M N Shroff for Respondent No 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by A Prefatory statement KRISHNA IYER J.
In this appeal by special leave we are called upon to interpret a benign provision enacted to ameliorate the economic condition of neglected wives and discarded divorcees namely.
The Constitution is a pervasive omnipresence brooding over the meaning and transforming the values of every measure.
So section 125 and sister clauses must receive a compassionate expansion of sense that the words used permit.
The respondent divorced the appellant around July 1962.
For instance it recited that this respondent had transferred the suit premises namely a flat in Bombay to the appellant and also the shares of the Cooperative Housing Society which built the flat concerned.
Thereafter again they separated became entranged.
The appellant finding herself in financial straits and unable to maintain herself moved the magistrate under section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code 1973 for a monthly allowance for the maintenance of herself and her child.
She proceeded on the footing that she was still a wife while the respondent rejected this status and asserted that she was a divorce and therefore ineligible for maintenance.
This order was challenged before the sessions Judge by the aggrieved husband who on a strange view of the law that the court under section 125 had no jurisdication to consider whether the applicant was a wife dismissed the petition in allowance of the appeal.
The Questions Mooted Shri Bhandare appearing for the appellant contended that the Courts below had surprisingly forgotten the plain provision in the Explanation b to section 1251 of the Code which reads wife  includes a woman who has been divorced by.
or has obtained a divorce from her husband and has not remarried.
This is obviously beyond dispute or.
We hold that every divorce otherwise eligible is entitled to the benefit of maintenance allowance and the dissolution of the marriage makes no difference to this right under the current Code.
In the normal course an order for maintenance must follow the quantum having been determined by the learned Magistrate at the trial level.
His next plea was that there must be proof of neglect to maintain to attract s125 and his third contention was that there was a settlement by consent decree in 1962 whereby the mehar money had been paid and all claims adjusted and so no claim for maintenance could survive.
So we must deal with the dual sub heads of the third ground.
If any in statutory interpretation belongs to the ill used wife and the derelict divorcee.
Surely Parliament in keeping with article 153 and deliberate by design made a special provision to help women in distress cast away by divorce.
Protection against moral and material abandonment manifest in article 39 is part of social and economic justice specificated in article 38 fulfilment of which is fundamental to the governance of the country Art37.
80 section 125 requires as a sine qua non for its application neglect by husband or father.
Obviously he has no case of non neglect.
In this generous jurisdiction a broader perception and appreciation of the facts and their bearing must govern the verdict not chopping little logic or tinkering with burden of proof.
The next submission is that the absence of mutual consent to live separately must be made out if the hurdle of section 1254 is to be over come.
We see hardly any force in this plea.
If law has nexus with life this argument is still born.
The last defence based on mehar payment merits more serious attention.
The contractual limb of the contention must easily fail.
Nor can s127 rescue the respondent from his obligation.
Payment of mehar money as a customary discharge is within the cognisance of that provision.
This traumatic horror animates the amplitude of s127.
The keynote thought is adequacy of payment which will take reasonable care of her maintenance.
No construction which leads to frustration of the statutory project can secure validation if the court is to pay true homage to the Constitution.
The only just construction of the section is that Parliament intended divorcees should not derive a double benefit.
The whole scheme of section 1273 b is manifestly to recognise the substitute maintenance arrangement by lump sum payment organised by the custom of the community or the personal law of the parties.
Law is dynamic and its meaning cannot he pedantic but purposeful.
The conclusion that we therefore reach is that the appeal should be allowed and it is hereby allowed and the order of the trial court restored.
