From the Judgment and Order dated 1031986 of the Karnataka High Court in WP Nos.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
We are concerned in these appeals with the vires and interpretation of this proviso.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
A public service vehicle is defined in section 225 as any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward and includes a motor cab contract carriage and stage carriage.
Sections 46 47 and 48 deal with the grant of stage carriage permits.
Section 471 C enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
Section 57 deals generally with the procedure to be followed in applying for and granting permits.
Section 68 F1 prescribes that where in pursuance of an approved scheme a State Transport Undertaking applies for a stage carriage permit a contract carriage permit or a public carrier s permit in respect of a notified area or notified route such permit shall be granted to the State Transport Undertaking by the State Transport Authority in a case where the said area or route lies in more than one region and the Regional Transport Authority in any other case.
That is how section 471 H was interpreted in Sher Singh s case.
It signifies that other things being equal 1016 one will have preference over the others.
47 the application of the Undertaking for an inter State route shall be examined as application of any other private operator.
Clauses i to iii of the proviso providing for preference to be given to applications for permits from the Indian Tourism Development Corporation the State Tourism Development Corporation and the State Tourist Department were not questioned but the preference provided for by clause iv and to be given to such operators of tourist cars or such travel agents as may be approved in this behalf by the Ministry dealing in tourism was questioned as an infringement of article 14 of the Constitution.
It was said that the clause contained sufficient guidelines for the exercise of discretion in granting approval by the Central Government.
It is difficult to agree with the interpretation of the Karnataka High Court having regard to the definitions of Transport Vehicle and motor car contained in section 229 A and section 216 respectively.
637 of the .
It is seen that the scheme excludes omnibus operators and requires applicants to have 1019 either two years  experience in the car hire business with contacts in the tourist business or to own five tourist taxies.
PSS Appeals allowed.
