Appeal No 1713NT of 1973.
On the same day ie on ist January 1957 Om Parkash Gupta wrote to the assessee his father thanking him for the gift of Rs25000 made in his favour and the gift of Rs50000 in favour of his son Pravin.
contractors and brick kiln owners.
It was also stated to be carrying on business of advancing money and taking money on loan when necessary.
But it appears that it was admitted position that Tika Ram  Sons had a cash balance of Rs4000 only on 111957 and it did not have any overdraft facilities with any bank.
But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
34 and 5 were answered in the negative.
Aggrieved by the said decision the revenue has come up in appeal.
In order to constitute a valid gift there must be an existing property.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
It is possible in certain circumstances for a donor to make a valid gift by instructing a firm or a company or a HUF in which the donor has an account to give effect to the gift by debiting his account and crediting the account in the name of the donee.
But in such cases 127 merely books entries would not suffice.
See also the cases of Commissioner of Income Tax Bombay City H vs Popatlal Mulji and also in the case of Addl.
It was held by the Bombay High Court that there was no valid gift.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
He had large assets but these were represented by land buildings plant machinery and stock in trade.
Interest on the amounts was also credited in the accounts regularly for some time until a bank from which C had obtained an overdraft objected to such crediting of interest.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
Balance of the firm was only Rs 15.
Memo of gift recorded on stamp paper.
It was held that the gift was not valid.
In Commissioner of Wealth Tax vs Gulab Rai Govind Pra sad there was an alleged gift of Rs2 lakhs to minor son by book entries.
No acceptance was produced.
On 20th November 1956 the assessee purported to transfer Rs50000 from his account to the account of his son.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
As the respondent is not appearing there will be no order as to costs.
