From the Judgment and Order dated 4785  21684 of the Customs Excise and Gold Control Appellate Tribunal New Delhi in Appeal Nos.
According to the appellant the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oilStyrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
For the purposes of this sub clause the amount of the duty of excise payable on any excisable goods shall be the sum total of a the effective duty of excise payable on such goods under this Act and b the aggregate of the effective duties of excise payable under other Central Acts if any providing for the levy of duties of excise on such goods  and the effective duty of excise on such goods under each Act referred to in clause a or clause b shall be i in a case where a notification or order providing for any exemption not being an exemption for giving credit with respect to for reduction or duty of excise under such Act on such goods equal to any duty of excise under such Act or the additional duty under Section 3 of the 51 of 1975 already paid on the raw material or component parts used in the production or manufacture of such goods from the duty of excise under such Act is for the time being in force the duty of excise computed with refer ence to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods as reduced so as to give full and complete effect to such exemption and ii in any other case the duty of excise computed with reference to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods.
According to the learned Attorney General since the Act provides for only one exception to this measure namely non inclusion of the cost of such packing where the packing is durable in nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee in all other cases the cost of the packing would have to be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods where such goods are delivered at the time of removal in packed condition.
For articles to be goods these must be known in the market as such and these must be capable of being sold or being sold in the market as such.
Furthermore no cost was in fact incurred by the assessee.
He answered that it is not.
But as a matter of fact delivery in drums was only to facilitate their transport in small quantities.
From these tanks the goods were removed directly and placed in vehicles for their movement for 90 of the sales the vehicle of removal was tankers and 10 of the sales the vehicle of removals was drums.
In construing section 44di all that has to be seen is whether the goods are delivered in packed condition.
