Pursuant to the said scheme the State of Uttar Pradesh appointed the respondent as the Secretary Zila Sainik Board Unnao on 20th of August 1979.
the date of assumption if it is not terminated earlier by giving a one month s notice by the Hon ble Gover nor or on paying one month s salary in lieu thereof or by giving one month s notice by the Officer.
Again the term was extended upto 30th of August 1985 by an order dated 1st June 1983.
 The judgment was delivered on 2431988.
 The contention of the respondent was that the said interim order entitled him to be reinstated in service irrespective of the fact whether the Governor had extended the period of his appointment beyond 30th of August 1985.
The High Court allowed the Review PetitiOn on 2671988 and made an order reinstating the Respondent in service which reads as follows This is an application for review of our Judgment dated 2431988 by which we allowed the Writ Petition filed by the Petitioner with certain directions.
It is not disputed that the scheme under which the respond ent 244 had been appointed provided for an appointment by contract for a specified term which could be extended from time to time and that the term of the respondent had been extended on different occasions after his first appointment and he was not entitled to continue in service beyond 30th August 1985 unless there was a further extension.
It is on this basis that the High court had while setting aside the order of termination by its order dated 2431988 directed that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service and further observed that it was open for the opposite parties to consider the claim of the respondent for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard were made by the Court.
A reading of the Judgment of the High Court dated 2431988 shows that the respondent had not urged before the High Court that the order of appointment issued in his case was not in the nature of a contract and the subsequent orders extending his period of appointment till 30th of August 1985 were liable to be ignored and that he should be treated as a person regularly appointed in Government service entitled to con tinue till he completed the age of 58 years.
TNA Appeal allowed.
