KN Rajagopala Sastri R H Dhebar and D Gupta for the appellant.
In C A 26058 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
Indian Act.
It was argued on behalf of the Revenue that this 1  37.
From 1922 to 1939 in order to be taxable income profits and gains had to be received or had to accrue in British India.
263 there were six heads of income chargeable to income tax.
But it was contended on behalf of the Revenue that the first proviso to section 241 of the Indian Act not only affected the generality of the main enactment but also introduced an addendum that where the profits of the business arose in what was British India in the case of the Indian Act or what was Travancore State in the case of the Travancore Act and the losses under the head business were sustained in an Indian State or in the latter case in any other Indian State or British India these losses could not by virtue of the proviso be deducted from profits made in British India or Travancore State as the case may be.
It carves out an exception to the main provision to which it has been enacted as a proviso and to no other .
It has to operate in the same field and if the language of the main enactment is clear it cannot be used for the purpose of interpreting the main enactment or to exclude by implication what the enactment clearly says unless the words of the proviso are such that that is its necessary effect.
Vide also Corporation of The City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada 1.
It is significant that in sections 213 and 5 of the Indian Act of 1918 corresponding to sections 215 and 6 of the Indian Act of 1922 the word used was income  which in the latter Act was expanded into  income profits and gains .
41950 5 269 argument does not take note of the definition of total income total world income  and chargeability of total income under section 3 or the provisions of section 4 where in the case of a resident total income  includes income profits and gains accruing within or without I British India.
But then it was said that as the profits or gains of business in an Indian State were exempted from payment of tax in British India business in section 10 must mean business in British India.
In our view the question referred to the High Court which is common to the two appeals was rightly answered in favour of the assessee.
Appeals dismissed.
