it paid 24 3 per cent.
during the year 1949 the selling rates for cloth and yarn were controlled by the government and were approximately 4 per cent.
further the management were unable to secure cotton which resulted in the curtailment of the working hours.
the appellant also paid ex gratia to the workmen bonus at the rate of annas 2 per rupee of their basic earnings making it clear by their notification dated the 7th april 1950 that the directors had sanctioned the payment at that rate in spite of the appellant having suffered a trading loss for the year that it was being paid entirely at the discretion of the appellant and was not related to or connected with any contract of employment of any worker.
on an appeal taken by the appellant to the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur the industrial court accepted the contention of the appellant allowed the appeal and set aside the award.
the question which therefore arises for our consideration is mainly whether the workers are entitled to the payment of a bonus in spite of the employer having worked at a loss during the year and incidentally whether the workers have any right title or interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the previous years.
it is classified amongst the methods of wage payment.
it has been used especially in the united states of america to designate an award in addition to the contractual wage.
the same would ripen into a legally enforceable claim.
t l r 294 297 where the earl of birkenhead observed the term bonus may of course be properly used to describe payments made of grace and not as of right.
a c 166 i87 this payment if made can not properly in my opinion be regarded as a mere gratuity.
but second the meaning of the word bonus is not given to it by the objection.
a premium given for a loan or a charter or other privilege granted to a company as the bank paid a bonus for its charter a sum paid in addition to a stated compensation.
it is not a gift or gratuity but a sum paid for services or upon a consideration in addition to or in excess of that which would ordinarily be given 12.
and also in great western garment co ltd v minister of national revenue 1948.
d l r 25 233.
a bonus may be a mere gift or gratuity as a gesture of goodwill and not enforceable or it may be something which an employee is entitled to on the happening of a condition precedent and is enforceable when the condition is fulfilled.
it generally represents the cash incentive given conditionally on certain standards of attendance and efficiency being attained.
2 l l j 247as.
a return on the working capital at a lesser rate than the return on paid up capital.
it is therefore clear that the claim for bonus can be made by the employees only if as a result of the joint contribution of capital and labour the industrial concern has earned profits.
bonus is not a deferred wage.
because if it were so it would necessarily rank for precedence before dividends the dividends can only be paid out of profits and unless and until profits are made no occasion or question can also arise for distribution of any sum as bonus amongst the employees.
if the industrial concern has resulted in a trading loss there would be no profits of the particular year available for distribution of dividends much less could the employees claim the distribution of bonus during that year.
i l l j 466this was also the basis of the demand of the respondent in the case before us its case being that the appellant had reaped substantial profits during the year 1949.
it is significant to observe that this principle was accepted by the labour appellate tribunal itself.
so it would follow that if there is trading loss in the year under claim bonus should not ordinarily be awarded.
it however observed but in our opinion that should not be the universal rule.
considerations of social justice can not be disregarded altogether in relations between capital and labour.
linking of bonus to dividend would obviously create difficulties.
because if that theory was accepted a company would not declare any dividends but accumulate the profits build up reserves and distribute those profits in the shape of bonus shares or reduce the capital in which event the workers would not be entitled to claim anything as and by way of bonus.
even on a winding up of a company the property of the company would be applied in satisfaction of its liabilities pari passu and unless the articles of association of the company otherwise provided in distribution amongst the members according to their rights and interest in the company.
a transfer of moneys from these reserves or the undistributed profits would therefore not enure for the benefit of the workers.
it has also got to be remembered that the labour force employed in an industrial concern is a fluctuating body and it can not be predicated of the labour force in a particular year that it represents the past and the present workers so that it can claim to demand bonus out of the reserves or undistributed profits of the previous years.
on the accounts of each year being made up and the profits of the industrial concern being ascertained the workers during the particular year have their demand for bonus fully satisfied out of the surplus profits and the balance of profits is allocated and carried over in the accounts.
no further claimed payment of bonus out of those reserves or undistributed profits can therefore survive.
social justice is a very vague and indeterminate expression and no clear cut definition can be laid down which will cover all the situations.
mr isaacs the learned counsel for the respondent.
attempted to give a definition in the following terms social justice connotes the balance of adjustments of the various interests concerned in the social and economic structure of the state in order to promote harmony upon an ethical and economic basis and he stated that there were three parties concerned here viz the employers the labour and the state itself and the conception of social justice had to be worked out in this context.
indeed the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal evolved the abovequoted formula with a view to dispensing social justice between the various parties concerned.
social justice is not the fancy of any individual adjudicator if it were so then ideas of social justice might vary from adjudicator to adjudicator over all parts of india.
it is also significant to note that even while importing considerations of social justice the labour appellate tribunal was oblivious of the fact that it was by their own acts of indiscipline and strike that the workers of the appellant company themselves contributed to the trading losses incurred by the appellant and it hardly lay in their mouth then to contend that they were none the less entitled to a payment of bonus commensurate with the dividend paid to the shareholders out of the undistributed profits of the previous years.
ordinance of 1948 the whole of the profits of 1948 could have been distributed after paying the workers bonus in that year of four annas in the rupee.
the appeal will accordingly be allowed with costs.
appeal allowed.
