in 1984doordarshan in order to popularize sponsored serial undertook the production of a serial by the name humlog.
further the said respondents had been recovering the cost of production well in advance of the serial episodes being actually produced.
ltd on.
01 january 1985 the petitioners though not required to do so made an ex gratia payment to respondent nos 1 to 4 of a portion of the royalty received by them from the said m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
1st and 2nd respondents had by their letter dated 14 december 1984 confirmed that the petitioners have all t v and video rights of the sponsored programme in hindi yeh jo hai zindagi and vest with the petitioners.
by their letter dated 02 january 1986 the petitioners informed the 1st and 2nd respondents that it was not possible to increase the costs of production for the episodes and that in the circumstances the production of the serial may stop.
it was also pointed out that the name yeh jo hai zindagi is associated with the vicco laboratories and that if they wanted to obtain another sponsor they could produce a new serial under a different name.
apart from raising the question of valuation of the suit and the pecuniary jurisdiction of the court to try the same they also raised question that the petitioners are not the owners of the copyright in the said serial within the meaning of s 17 of the copyright act1957 and the copyright in respect of the said serial belongs and vests with the respondent nos 1 to 4.
consistently with the said intention further the master cassette of the said serial at all relevant times remained exclusively with the respondents and not with the petitioners and the petitioners paid to the respondents 50 of the royalty received from m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
ltd under the agreement dated 1 januray 198504 march 1985 and 16 september 1985 the advertisements issued by the petitioners themselves in various newspapers to give wide publicity to the said serial would indicate that the serial mentioned these respondents are the owners of the copyright in respect of the said serial and the petitioners claim in that behalf is devoid of any substance.
it was also contended that the 2nd respondent is an artist and a film maker and has been in the field of film making for the past 20 years.
in the course of his business the 2nd respondent has developed contacts and connections with important and renowned personalities artists technicians etc in the film industry.
in the year 1967the 2nd respondent s wife mrs sunanda s oberoi started the proprietary business of advertising agency in the name and style of art commercial and the 2nd respondent used to work in various capacities for the said firm.
in the year 1983the said proprietary firm was converted into a private limited company which is the 1st respondent in the present suit and the 2nd respondent constituted respondent nos 3 and 4 as his proprietary firm.
about 18 years ago before filing of the suit the respondents came into contact with the petitioners initially as clients in connection with the job of advertisement of their products on all india radio theatre and films and later on television.
in course of time the 2nd respondent and partners of the petitioners especially g k pendharkar came very close to each other and developed very intimate relations.
either at the end of 1983 or early part of 1984the 5th respondent through the said doorsarshan decided to introduce the production of films or serials especially for exhibitions on tv instead of exhibiting telecasting films produced by the professional film producers on payment of exorbitant royalty to them partly as an economy measure and partly to provide avenues to and exposure new talents.
as against the regular rates charge of rs 324000 for display of advertisements on tv of such advertisers for 120 seconds per telecast the relevant time at the rate of rs 35000 only for 120 seconds in addition to the royalty or consideration payable to the producers of such films or serials which invariably was far less than the difference between the usual rates and concession rates of advertisements.
after a number of meetings between the 2nd respondent and the concerned officers and the authorities of the respondents at delhi in connection with the said proposal approved a pilot i e the first episode as sample on 19 september 1984 to produce a tv serial comprising 52 episodes subject of course to the 5th respondent discretion to discontinue the same if the same proved a flop before the expiry of the stipulated period.
after finalizing the proposal by the tv authorities respondent no 2 asked the petitioners as to whether they were interested in the linking up their ads with the said serial.
nor did the parties intend that the respondents should produce the said serial for the petitioners or at the instance of the petitioners and the respondents intended to embark on the production of the said serial on their own.
on these grounds the respondents contended that the suit of the petitioners is misconceived malicious and baseless and is liable to be dismissed.
3 do the plaintiffs prove that the entire serial rights including the excluding the exclusive right to use the title thereof belong to the plaintiffs as alleged.
4 are defendant nos 1 to 4 entitled to deny the ownership of the plaintiffs of the film.
7 does.
10 are.
11 to what relief if any are the plaintiffs entitled.
12 what order.
after examining the oral and documentary evidence on record it is disclosed that prior to letter sent on 11 july 1984 the petitioners were acquainted even with the format of the suit serial they did not have any connection with the suit serial till that date and relied upon the wording used therein to the effect that you and mr g k pendharkar are requested to join mr oberoi and his creative team when the format of the proposed half and hour sponsored programme shall be presented to you.
it was also on record that the shri g k pendharkar of the petitioners and respondent no 2 had long standing relations with each other and they had already done a lot of advertising works for the petitioners before the production of the suit serial.
exhibit g 1 which is exhibit 27 a in the petitioners compilation is a letter written by shri s p agrawal controller of programmes of doordarshan to respondent no 1m s art commercia with reference to the format for the proposed serial of half and hour duration tentatively titled musibat hai serial sent to them on 13 july 1984 since the letter was addressed to m s art commercia in which the proposal was accepted for production of the serial and the first episode was to be sent for preview and approval which would be given only after seeing the recording of the first episode.
it is held that words produced by sponsors would not mean that the sponsors themselves are the producers of the said programmes as is clear from the tariff card.
inasmuch as the respondents could not claim any amount at random details regarding expenditure were included in the bills and therefore it is the sponsor s price for sponsoring the suit serial.
on appeal the high court re examined the matter and on examination of the pleadings the contentions put forth before the court the evidence on record and the findings recorded by the trial court concluded that the findings recorded by the trial court are proper.
in this special leave petition u art 136 of the constitution the contentions raised before the high court are reiterated particularly as to the effect of s 17 of the copyright act and whether the correspondence on record would not indicate that they were entitled to ownership and copyright in respect of the tv programme yeh jo hai zindagi.
2 the bills of cost of production.
it is clear from the findings recorded by the trial court and the appellate court 1 that the respondents have not undertaken the production of the said serial at the instance of the petitioners.
g k pendharkar the managing director of petitioner no 1 was asked to come to view the format of the programme and the petitioners were not even acquainted with the format of the serial while the respondents had taken concrete steps in this regard prior to the letter dated 11 july 1984.
2 that the petitioners had agreed to sponsor only 26 episodes whereas the respondents had agreed to produce 52 episodes and had given a firm commitment to that effect to doordarshan as is clear from the letter dated 12 july 1984 sent by the respondents to doordarshan.
3 that the titles of each episode indicated that respondent no 2 is the producer of the said serial and the petitioners are only the sponsors.
as late as on 22 april 1985the petitioners communicated their displeasure on this display in the episodes as to the titles.
however the titles continued to show mr s s oberoi as the producer of the serial and the petitioners did not withhold payments.
5 that the doordarshan which have been impleaded as a party in their written statement stated that they recognize the respondents as producers of the said serial and recognize the petitioners as sponsors only.
6 that the evidence of mr s s gill who gave evidence on behalf of the information broadcasting ministry that he was not acquainted with mr pendharkar and that doordarshan had no direct connection with the petitioners but only with the respondents as producers or the director stood un impeached.
in his further evidence mr gill stated that some time in the month of may june1984 he had met kundan shah and requested to make a comedy serial for doordarshan which clearly indicated that it is only the respondents who were dealing with doordarshan.
ltd by the respondents pursuant to letters dated 14 december 1984 and 15 november 1985 and had received royalty for the video rights and the original u matic cassettes were returned to them by esquire distributing servicing pvt.
ltd as their property.
ltd that the respondents were asked by the petitioners to issue another letter in this regard.
if the expenses were less the petitioners did not ask for a refund and the profit or loss was entirely of the respondents.
however the learned counsel for the petitioners made elaborate reference to the income tax act1961 and the provisions whether such availment of benefit could be taken or not pursuant to the amendment effected to the provisions relating to computation of business income at different stages may not be very germane to the present case.
on appreciation of evidence the courts below have come to the conclusion that the respondents did not make the said serial for valuable consideration at the instance of the petitioners and in view of the findings of fact the claim of copyright or ownership in respect of the serial u s 17b and c would not arise at all.
petition dismissed.
