background facts.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
if no then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer.
proceedings before the tribunal.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
high court judgment.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
dr rajiv dhawan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 and mr m n rao learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 335 of 2002 took us through materials on records and contended that the appellants herein became permanent employees of the respondents having regard to the provisions contained in section 2 of the 1961 act and order 2i and 2vi of the standard standing orders as set out in the annexure appended to the 1963 rules defining permanent employees and the temporary employees.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
it was further contended that as the respondents despite direction to produce documents including the offers for appointment did not produce the same an adverse inference should have been drawn against them by the high court.
furthermore from the reliefs claimed it would appear that the appellants had inter alia prayed for continuance of their services by the indore municipal corporation which knocks off the very basis of their claim.
2 of the standard standing order reads as under 2.
i a permanent employee is one who has completed six months satisfactory service in a clear vacancy in one or more posts whether as a probationer or otherwise or a person whose name has been entered in the muster roll and who is given a ticket of permanent employee vi.
i above.
12 of the constitution of india.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
all actions of the state must conform to the constitutional requirements.
a daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.
ajay kumar 1997 4 scc 88 1997 indlaw sc 833 jawaharlal nehru krishi viswa vidyalaya jabalpur m p vs.
bal kishan soni and others 1997 5 scc 86 1997 indlaw sc 928.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
in this case except the nodal centre functions and supervision of the cooperative society the state has no administrative control over its day to day affairs.
it was therefore impermissible for the state to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
in dr a k jain and others etc.
1987 indlaw sc 28778 this court did not lay down any law.
it was in fact held that as the petitioners therein were not regularized in accordance with the prescribed rules and regulations for regular appointments their services had to be terminated and as such there had been neither any arbitrary nor illegal action on the part of the respondents nor any violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed under articles 14 and 16.
however having regard to the facts and circumstances of the said case some directions were issued presumably in terms of article 142 of the constitution.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
in niadar and another vs delhi administration and another 1992 4 scc 112 1988 indlaw sc 244 again no law has been laid down.
it appears that there existed a scheme for regularization and some directions were issued in terms thereof.
application of the act and the rules.
by reason of the provisions of the said act application of standard standing orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the standard standing orders have been specified.
1 continue in force as if they were made under this act.
it is furthermore not in dispute that adhiniyam came into force in 1973.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
grant of such ticket was imperative before permanency could be so claimed.
it is not the case of the appellants that they had been working as technical supervisors and clerks in respect of which service book may be maintained instead of issuance of a ticket.
it is also not the case of the appellants that their names had appeared in the service book maintained for the said purpose.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
but in absence of any conflict in the provisions of the said act the conditions of service including those relating to recruitment as provided for in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules would apply.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
for the purpose of regularization which would confer on the concerned employee a permanent status there must exist a post.
it could not enlarge the scope of the reference nor could deviate therefrom.
dr dhawan is not correct in his submission that a separate ticket need not be issued and what was necessary was merely to show that the appellants had been recognized by the state as its employees having been provided with employment code.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
a distinction is sought to be made by dr dhawan that out of them 27 had been appointed to a project and not in a project.
if the appellants were appointed for the purpose of the project they would be deemed to have been appointed therefor and only because such appointments had been made by the respondent would by itself not entitle them to claim permanency.
furthermore the indore municipal corporation was not a party and thus no employee could be thrust upon it without its consent.
in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra this court held that once the employees are employed for the purpose of the scheme they do not acquire any vested right to continue after the project is over.
amar singh and others 2003 5 scc 388 2003 indlaw sc 331.
it is furthermore evident that the persons appointed as daily wagers held no posts.
however it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
adverse inference.
had the letters of appointment been issued the appellants themselves could have produced the same.
it is accepted at the bar when the endorsement on the application filed by om prakash mondloi was shown that the appointment letters were not issued.
if a document was called for in absence of any pleadings the same was not relevant.
an adverse inference need not necessarily be drawn only because it would be lawful to do so.
considering these facts in our view drawing of an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the years 1991 92 is wholly erroneous on the part of the industrial court and the high court.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court s view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
a court of law even in a case where provisions of the indian evidence act apply may presume or may not presume that if a party despite possession of the best evidence had not produced the same it would have gone against his contentions.
equal pay for equal work.
no post was sanctioned by the state government.
furthermore when their services had not been regularized and they had continued on a consolidated pay on ad hoc basis having not undergone the process of regular appointments no direction to give regular pay scale could have been issued by the labour court.
in state of haryana and another vs tilak raj and others 2003 6 scc 123 2003 indlaw sc 512 it was held a scale of pay is attached to a definite post and in case of a daily wager he hold no posts.
conclusion.
for the reasons aforementioned we do not find any merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.
appeals dismissed.
