this appeal is by special leave against the judgment and decree of the high court of kerala which dismissed an appeal against the judgment and decree of the subordinate court of havelikkara.
the appellant had filed a suit on october 24 1942 for the recovery of rs 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the state of travancore now the state of kerala the respondent and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the high court.
it has alleged in the plaint that the plaintiff appellant was wrongfully dispossessed from 160 acres of land along with the improvements which had been effected by him and as the state had appropriated those improvements without any right or title thereto he claimed the value of those improvements.
it was the appellant s case that he had been in occupation of the said 160 acres of cherikkal land unregistered dry lands in hilly tracts about which and the adjoining lands there was a dispute as to whether the same belonged to a jenmi family known as koodalvalli illom hereinafter called the illom or to the government of the erstwhile travancore state.
the appellant s father and the appellant had occupied these lands made improvement thereon by planting coconut trees arecanut palms peppervines rubber trees jack trees other trees and by constructing bungalow huts wells etc.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
this practice it seems was also current in respect of lands belonging to the government before the travancore land conservancy act 4 of 1091 24 7 1916 hereinafter called the act.
it is the case of the appellant that even after the act was passed unauthorised occupants of land belonging to the government who had made improvements therein had under the rules made both under the act and the land assignment act a preferential claim over others for getting kuthakapattom or assignment of the property in their possession.
it may be mentioned that in respect of the 160 acres of land of the illom which were occupied by the appellant s father and the appellant there was a dispute between the illom and the travancore state from about 1848.
while this dispute was pending it appears the appellant applied to the conservator of forests for registration of the lands in his name but the application was rejected on june 14 1919 stating that the land applied for can not be registered ext.
a while the application for registration was pending the dispute between the illom and the state of travancore had reached a stage when the illom had to institute a suit o section No.
126 of 1096.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
in that suit the appellant after his application for registration was rejected sought to get himself impleaded but that application also was rejected.
thereafter the suit filed by the illom was dismissed on 28 6 1109 february 10 1934.
an appeal against it was dismissed on september 27 1943.
it may here be mentioned that while the suit of the illom i e o s No 126 of 1096 m e was pending in the district court quilon the government of travancore had initiated proceedings in ejectment against the appellant by l c case.
112 of 1100 1925 a d as the suit of the illom had been finally disposed of and the title of the illom to the lands was not established the appellant apprehending that he might be ejected in the above l c case filed a suit.
against that order a civil miscellaneous appeal No 206 of 1110 m e 1934 35 a d was filed in the high court of travancore.
the high court issued a commission for inspecting the properties and the commissioner in his report part 13 of ext.
thereafter the suit out of which this appeal arises was filed against the government on october 24 1942.
the trial court also held that all through these long years there had been a dispute as to the title between the illom and the state and after the suit of the illom was dismissed and the illom s title was not sustained the allegation that the improvements were effected can not be stated to be bona fide.
it was further held that the greater part of the improvements were affected by the appellant after the proceedings in the l c case No 112 of 1100 m e were stayed as such it can not be said that these improvements could have been effected in good faith.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
it observed that the evidence in the case indicated that the possession of the father of the appellant must have commenced close to the year 1100 m e and consequently the claim of the appellant that lie was in possession from 1030 m e can not be true.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
another reason for disallowing the compensation for trees given by the high court was that the position of a trespasser whether he be a mere trespasser or a trespasser under a bona fide claim of title cannot be better than that of a tenant and that if this is correct then the appeal has to be dismissed on the short ground that there is no principle of law or equity which requires the payment of compensation in respect of trees the ownership of which was all along or at any rate from the dale of the trespasser s dispossession vested in the state.
we have earlier adverted to ext.
a and also to the fact that after the application for registration was rejected the appellant tried to get himself impleaded in the suit filed by the illom against the state which application was also rejected and so the claim that his possession was bona fide or that he was a bona fide trespasser has no validity.
it is however urged before us that the high court was in error in thinking that the appellant did not occupy the lands as a trespasser with a bona fide claim of title because it was his case that he trespassed upon the land with a bona fide intention to improve the land and as such he can still be considered as a bona fide trespasser entitled to improvements under the general law.
an eviction under this section shall be made in the following manner namely by serving a notice on a person reported to be in occupation or his agent requir ing him within such time as the division peishkar may deem reasonable after receipt of the said notice to vacate the land and if such notice is not obeyed by removing or deputing a subordinate to remove any person who may refuse to vacate the same and if the officer removing any such person shall be resisted or obstructed by any person the division peishkar shall hold a summary enquiry into the facts of the case and if satisfied that the resistance or obstruction still continues may issue a warrant for the arrest of the said person and on his appearance may send him with a warrant in the form of the schedule for imprisonment in the civil jail of the district for such period not exceeding 30 days as may be necessary to prevent the continuance of such obstruction or resistance provided that no person so committed or imprisoned under this section shall be liable to be prosecuted under sections 176 179 and 181 of the travancore penal code in respect of the same facts.
yield income receipts return.
as it has now been contended before us.
appeal dismissed.
