this appeal is directed against the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 28 2 1986 allowing the respondent s writ petition and quashing order of discharge from service and directing his reinstatement in service.
the respondent joined service as technical assistant with the gujarat state electricity board hereinafter refined to as the board he was promoted to the post of deputy engineer.
while he was posted at surat as deputy engineer he was transferred to ukai subdivision under the order of the superintending engineer dated 29th march1974 pursuant to the order of transfer he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974 to enable him to join at ukai.
he made representation to the additional chief engineer for cancelling his transfer order on the ground that his mother aged 70 years was ailing and it would cause great inconvenience to him if he was required to join at ukai.
his representation was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
meanwhile the chief engineer by his order dated 27th may1974 discharged the respondent from service with effect from 31st march1974 in accordance with service regulation no 113 the respondent challenged the validity of the order of his discharge from service by means of a writ petition under article 226 of the constitution before the high court of gujarat.
a learned single judge of the high court quashed the order of termination on the findings that the order of discharge was issued m violation of the basic principles of natural justice as no opportunity was afforded to the respondent before discharging him from services under regulation no 113.
the learned single judge granted a declaration in respondent s favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back wages.
the respondent as well as the appellant board both preferred letters patent appeals against the order of learned single judge.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants but it allowed the respondent s appeal.
the division bench upheld the order of the learned single judge holding the order of discharge illegal and void but it set aside the order of the learned single judge refusing to grant consequential relief instead it directed the appellants to reinstate the respondent and to treat him in service without any break in service and to grant him benefits of increments seniority and promotion to which he may be entitled under the rules.
the bench however did not grant full back wages to the respondent instead it directed the board to pay him 50 per cent of back wages.
aggrieved the appellant has preferred the instant appeal after obtaining special leave of this court.
this appeal came up for hearing before us on 28th january1988 and on that day.
sh b k mehta advocate appearing for the appellants and sh.
vimal dave advocate appearing for the respondent were fully heard.
after hearing learned counsel for the parties we were satisfied that the learned single judge as well as the division bench both had committed error in allowing the writ petition and granting relief to the respondent.
we expressed our view in the court and suggested to mr vimal dave counsel for the respondent that if he agreed the original writ petition of the respondent could be dismissed without directing him to refund the amount which he had already been paid by the appellants in pursuance to the orders of the high court and of this court as during the pendency of the appeal.
the appellants were directed by means of interim order of this court to continue to pay salary to the respondent which was being paid to him regularly.
the hearing was adjourned to enable sh.
vimal dave to obtain instructions from the respondent.
the appeal came up for hearing before us on 16 2 1988 when another counsel appeared to argue the appeal on behalf of the respondent on merits.
we refused to hear the counsel as we had already completed hearing.
thereupon the respondent himself appeared in person and sought permission to make his submissions personally.
we refused to accede to his request as oral heating had already been completed and the matter had been adjourned only to enable the respondent s counsel to obtain instructions.
however in the interest of justice we permitted the respondent to file written submissions if any in support of his case.
thereafter the case was listed several times but no written submissions were filed instead the respondent adopted an unusual course by sending an application by post expressing his no confidence in us with a prayer to transfer the case to some other bench.
since this was unusual uncalled for and unjustified request we ignored the same and reserved the order.
we are constrained to note that instead of utilizing the opportunity granted to him for filing written submissions the respondent has misused adjournments for the purposes of raising frivolous objections for getting the case transferred to some other bench.
no party is entitled to get a case transferred from one bench to the other unless the bench is biased or there are some reasonable grounds for the same but no right to get a case transferred to any other bench can legitimately be claimed merely because the judges express opinion on the merits of the case on the conclusion of hearing.
in the instant case on the conclusion of the oral hearing we had expressed our opinion on 28 1 1988 in the open court that we were inclined to allow the appeal and set aside the order of the high court and dismiss the writ petition but taking a sympathetic view we requested sh.
vimal dave learned counsel appearing for the respondent to obtain instructions as aforesaid.
the opportunity granted to the respondent has however been misused by raising mischievous and frivolous objections instead of filing written submissions.
the respondent s prayer is accordingly rejected and since oral hearing has already been completed and in spite of several adjournments respondent failed to appear before the court or to file the written submissions we proceed to decide the case on merits.
transfer of a government servant appointed to a particular cadre of transferable posts from one place to the other is an incident of service.
no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place.
transfer from one place to other is generally a condition of service and the employee has no choice in the matter.
transfer from one place to other is necessary in public interest and efficiency in the public administration.
if the order of transfer is not stayed modified or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
march 301974 to may 271974.
dated 18th april1974.
