this appeal by special leave has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of bombay high court aurangabad bench by which the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed and their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc and sentence of 7 years ri imposed thereunder by the learned sessions judge aurangabad was affirmed.
the deceased bhimabai was daughter of pw 1 tukaram eknath tambe resident of village sanjkheda.
and she was married to appellant No 1.
appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
the appellant No 2 kadubai is the mother of the appellant No 1 and both the appellants were residing in the same house in village palshi.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
whenever bhimabai went to her parental home she used to tell her parents that her husband and mother in law accused appellants were harassing her and used to occasionally beat her.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
thereafter the accused treated bhimabai properly but after about four months they again started harassing her.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
she also told her parents that her husband had asked her to bring an amount of rs 1000 1200 for the purpose of household expenses and manure.
the case of the prosecution futher is that in the evening of 15 september 1991 a person came from village palshi on a motorcycle and informed pw 1 tukaram that bhimabai was unwell.
pw 1 then immediately went to the house of the accused along with some of his relatives.
there he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which indicated that she had consumed some poisonous substance.
the police patil of the village pw 3 sandu mohanrao patil lodged an accidental death report at 9 00 p m on 15 september 1991 at the police station.
on the basis of the said accidental death report pw 6 sandeepan kamble police sub inspector visited the house of the accused held inquest on the dead body of bhimabai and thereafter sent the same for post mortem examination.
pw 1 tukaram lodged the fir of the incident at 7 00 p m on 16 september 1991 at p s chikalthana on the basis of which case crime No 144 of 1991 was registered against the appellants under sections 498 a 306 and 304 b ipc.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
the learned sessions judge framed charges under sections 498 a 304 b read with section 34 ipc and section 306 read with section 34 ipc against both the appellants.
the appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
the prosecution in order to establish its case examined six wintesses and filed some documentary evidence.
the learned sessions judge after consideration of the material on record acquitted the appellants of the charges under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but convicted them under section 304 b ipc and imposed a sentence of 7 years ri thereunder.
the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed by the high court by the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005.
we have heard learned counsel for the appellants learned counsel for the state of maharashtra and have perused the records.
the post mortem examination on the body of deceased bhimabai was conducted by a team of two doctors of department of forensic medicine and toxicology medical college aurangabad namely dr s m jawale and dr h v godbole on 16 september 1991.
the doctors did not find any sign of external or internal injury on the body of the deceased and in their opinion the cause of death was insecticide poisoning.
the viscera were preserved for chemical analysis.
the report of the post mortem examination was admitted by the defence.
the specific case of the prosecution is that bhimabai ended her life by consuming poison because of harassment caused to her by the appellants for or in connection with demand of dowry.
it is therefore necessary to briefly examine the evidence of the prosecution witnesses.
1 tukaram father of the deceased has given details of the prosecution version of the incident in his statement in court.
he has deposed that in the marriage he had given rs 20000 as dowry.
initially bhimabai was treated well for about six months but thereafter the appellants started ill treating her.
whenever bhimabai came to her parental home she used to complain that for some domestic reasons she was being harassed.
when she had visited her parental home on the last occasion she had said that her husband appasaheb had asked her to bring rs 1000 1200 for domestic expenses and for purchasing manure as he had no sufficient money.
bhimabai had complained to him that she was not being given proper food clothings and even footwear and occasionally the appellant No 1 used to beat her.
the last time she visited her parental home was during the festival of nag panchami and at that time she looked depressed.
the witness has further deposed that on the date of incident a man came from village palshi on motorcycle and informed that he should immediately go there as bhimabai was not well.
he then went to village palshi along with other persons of his family where he reached after sun set.
he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which was smelling of thimet insecticide.
he has also deposed that it was after about 1 12 years of marriage that bhimabai first complained to him about the harassment being caused to her.
there used to be some bickering in the marital life of bhimabai and her husband on trifling matters.
pw 2 babaji is real brother of father in law of pw 1 tukaram.
he also admitted that he had not gone to attend that funeral of bhimabai.
pw 5 sumanbai is the mother of the deceased bhimabai.
the last time bhimabai visited her parental home was on the occasion of the festival of nag panchami and she had complained that she was being ill treated and was sometimes given beating for bringing money from her parents.
in her cross examination pw 5 sumanbai has stated that after news about the condition of bhimabai was given by a man from village palshi she along with her husband and some other relations went there and noticed that bhimabai was lying dead in the house and froth was coming out of her mouth.
in her statement under section 161 cr.
p c which was recorded very next day of the incident i e on 16 september 1991 she did not state that cause of ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
when confronted with her aforesaid statement under section 161 cr.
she further stated that it will be correct to say that her daughter was receiving ill treatment as a result of domestic cause.
what do you mean by domestic cause.
i can not assign any reason why police did not write about it in my statement.
he then went to the house of the appellant and saw bhimabai lying with froth coming out of her mouth.
in his examination in chief pw 1 has said that whenever his daughter came to her parental home she used to complain that she was being subjected to harassment by the appellants on account of some domestic reasons and further that her husband appellant no 1 had told her that while coming back from her parental home she should bring rs 1000 1200 for expenses and for manure as he had no sufficient money.
pw 5 sumanbai has deposed that bhimabai was receiving ill treatment as a result of domestic cause and to a specific question put by the court as to what she meant by domestic cause she gave a reply that there was a demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
p c which was recorded on the very next day of the death of bhimabai this witness did not state that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
the evidence on record does not indicate that the police had any reason to favour the accused and deliberately omitted to mention about the alleged demand of money while recording the statement of pw 5 sumanbai under section 161 cr.
accepting the statements of father and mother on their face value that utmost which can be held is that the appellant no 1 had asked his wife bhimabai to bring money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
section 2 of dowry prohibition act reads as under 2.
definition of dowry in this act dowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parent of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dowry or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
in view of the aforesaid definition of the word dowry any property or valuable security should be given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties.
sc 558 1991 indlaw sc 861.
the evidence adduced by the prosecution does not therefore show that any demand for dowry as defined in section 2 of the dowry prohibition act was made by the appellants as what was allegedly asked for was some money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
we do not consider it necessary to examine this question.
as already stated the appellants were also charged under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but were acquitted of the said charges by the learned sessions judge which order has attained finality for the reason that the state did not prefer appeal against the same.
therefore we have refrained from expressing any opinion as to whether the appellants could be held guilty of having committed the offence under section 498 a or 306 ipc on the basis of evidence available on record as their acquittal under the aforesaid charges has attained finality and can not be reversed in the appeal filed by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304 b ipc.
appeal allowed.
