the present appeal arises out of the judgment and order dated 01 07 2002 passed by the high court of bombay at goa in criminal appeal No 6 of 2000 convicting the accused appellant section 302 of the indian penal code for short the the ipc and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment for the offence by setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the trial court.
facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
it is also the case of the prosecution that as a result of the aforesaid stab injuries given to the deceased he expired on the same day i e on 19 04 1988.
p s joaquim dias pw 21 who was attached to the ponda police station as p s i received a phone call at about 10 45 p m from p s i k k desai of the panaji police station that a person named rauji dulba sawant had been brought in police jeep by police constable jaisingrao rane and that while he was being taken to the goa medical college he expired.
he was informed that the deceased had died as a result of stab injuries received and therefore he was to take necessary steps.
on receipt of the aforesaid message pw 21 along with asi tabit mamlekar went to the scene of offence.
they reached the scene of offence at about 11 30 p m but found the entire place plunged into darkness and with the help of torch light pw 21 surveyed the scene of offence.
during the survey made at the place of occurrence pw 21 noticed some blood stains in the front courtyard of the house and a pipe of length of about 1 foot or slightly less lying in the courtyard having blood stains.
thereafter pw 21 along with p i dsa gave a call to the inmates of the house to open the door and on hearing the call one lady opened the door.
on enquiring from her pw 21 learnt that her name was yeshoda who was later on arrayed as accused No 3.
two juvenile girls named sarita and sharmila who are the sisters of the appellant were found in the house.
in the meantime pw 1 pw 2 and pw 8 came to the house from whom pw 21 made certain inquiries and brought them along with accused No 3 and her two juvenile girls to the police station.
not finding the appellant and accused no 2 in the house dy.
s p shri raikar and p i shri alan osa were sent in their search.
after reaching the police station a complaint which is marked as exhibit pw 1 a was lodged by pw 1 in which it was alleged that pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 the deceased rauji and his brother narayan were residing in one house in banastari and they used to share a common kitchen between them.
it was further alleged by pw 1 that two or three days before the ganesh festival deceased rauji had informed narayan that he would install statue of lord ganesh in the house and accordingly he had purchased the same.
religious ceremony was performed by installing the statue of lord ganesh in the house and.
while the said religious ceremony was being performed accused No 2 started uttering insults while standing in the kitchen.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
pw 1 also alleged that on 19 04 1988 the deceased rauji returned from his duty at about 6 30 p m and thereafter went to purchase some articles.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
there was a heated exchange of words between rauji and the appellant switched on the light which was again switched off by rauji the deceased.
meanwhile accused No 3 started abusing pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 and the deceased rauji.
thereafter the appellant and the two other alleged accused namely accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders gathered in the hall to assault rauji the deceased pw 1 and pw 8.
according to pw 1 in order to avoid the assault by all of them they went to bulcao balcony.
at that time the appellant who was holding the knife in his hand handed over the same to accused No 3 by which she assaulted pw 8 but pw 8 caught the knife in her hand which caused injury to her right palm.
on the basis of complaint made by pw 1 an fir was registered and the accused came to be arrested.
the trial court framed charges against all the accused persons for the offence under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of the ipc.
the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
he submitted that although the incident in question had taken place at about 8 45 p m the same came to be reported to the police at 3 00 a m he also submitted that the police officer pw 21 who received the information about the incident started investigation without recording either any general diary for short g d entry or the fir and therefore the fir which has been proved in the trial court is hit by the provisions of section 162 of the criminal procedure code for short the crpc.
he submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the crpc the accused appellant is liable to be acquitted.
302 ipc.
what is investigation is not defined in the code of criminal procedure but in h n rishbud and inder singh v state of delhi 1954 indlaw sc 14 this court has described the procedure for investigation as follows thus under the code investigation consists generally of the following steps 1 proceeding to the spot 2 ascertainment of the facts and circumstances of the case 3 discovery and arrest of the suspected offender 4 collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence which may consist of a the examination of various persons including the accused and the reduction of their statements into writing if the officer thinks fit b the search of places of seizure of things considered necessary for the investigation and to be produced at the trial and 5 formation of the opinion as to whether on the material collected there is a case to place the accused before a magistrate for trial and if so taking the necessary steps for the same by the filing of a charge sheet section this court however has not said that if a police officer takes merely one or two of the steps indicated by it what he has done must necessarily be regarded as investigation.
we have pws.
besides all the aforesaid eye witnesses were inmates of the house and they would know as to who had given the blows for they specifically stated that initially the appellant did not have the knife in his hand but when the deceased and others went to the balcony then he went inside the house and brought a knife with which he gave stab injuries to the deceased which became fatal and as a result of which the deceased died while he was being taken to the hospital.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304.
these are purely objective investigations.
c of section 299 and cl.
