yakshagana is a form of ballet dance.
it has its own heritage.
indisputably dr kota shivarama karanth for shortdr.
karantha jnanapeeth awardee who was a novelist play writer essayist encyclopediationist cultural anthropologist artist writer of science environmentalist.
he developed a new form of yakshagana.
he was a director of the appellant institute.
on or about 18 6 1994he executed a will in favour of the respondent.
karanth expired on 9 12 1997 yakshagana ballet dance as developed by dr karanth was performed in new delhi on or about 18 9 2001 respondent filed a suit for declaration injunction and damages alleging violation of the copyright in respect of the said dance vested in her in terms of the said will stating that dr karanth developed a new distinctive dance drama troop or theatrical system which was named by him as yaksha ranga which in his own words mean creative extension of traditional yakshagana and thus the appellants infringed the copyright thereof by performing the same at new delhi without obtaining her prior permission.
it was stated that dr karanth had composed seven verses or prasangas for staging yaksharanga ballet apart from bringing in changes in the traditional form thereof on its relevant aspects namely raga tala scenic arrangement costumes etc.
these prasangas are i bhishma vijaya ii nala damayanthi iii kanakangi or kanakangi kalyana iv abhimanyu or abhimanyu vada v chitrangadha or babruvahana kalaga vi panchavati and vii.
ganga charitha.
plaintiff respondent admittedly claimed copyright in respect of literary and artistic works in her favour in terms of clauses 11 and 12 of the said will dated 18 6 1994which read as under 11 since i left the house suhasa i have been living in a specially built house manasa of smt.
malini mallya who has built it with borrowed money at her cost.
she had joined my service as copyist and later she secured an employment in life insurance corporation of india.
ever since 1974 till now in my old age she has been serving me with exemplary devotion and sincerity.
and in this occasion i must also acknowledge with gratitude that she diligently cared and nursed my wife leela karanth during her prolonged illness till her last day.
and she has cared and looked after me also during my illness which at times had been quite serious enfeebling me for long period.
in recognition of her devotion and sincere affection towards me in 1986 i have dedicated one of my novels namelyantida aparanji to her.
i have also placed on record her invaluable services to me in my memoirshunchu mansina hathu mukhagalu 1991 edition.
in my opinion very long enduring and a signal service she has done to me and to my literary works is in writing a bibliography of all my books a highly meritorious and scholarly work involving so much of pains taking research that it has been acclaimed and rated as the first of its kind in kannada and highly appreciated by critics and scholars.
apart from this she has collected and edited all my stray writings from 1924 onwards up to date in eight sumptuous volumes which are being published by mangalore university.
this work also has brought her deserving fame and appreciation of scholars.
such painstaking service in this direction has brought to light several of my hitherto untraced forgotten and unknown writings and thereby giving them extended or renewed lease of life.
for all these services i hereby declare that after my death copyrights in respect of all my literary works shall vest with smt.
malini mallya and she alone shall be entitled to receive royalties of all my books and she shall be entitled to print publish and republish and market the same.
whatever she may earn thereby shall be her exclusive income and property.
no one else shall have any right or claims for the same 12 from time to time i have distributed among my children all gold and silver jewels and ornaments and other valuables which were gifted to me by my friends and admirers.
15000 00 3 directing the defendants to pay to the plaintiff interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a from 18 9 2001 till now which is 95 00.
it was furthermore contended that dr karanth was appointed as the president of the executive committee of yakshagana kendra for a period of three years by the appellant and while holding the said post only he expired.
by reason of a judgment and decree dated 14 11 2003the district judge udupi decreed the said suit declaring the plaintiff respondent as a person having the exclusive copyright in respect of seven prasangas and that she had acquired the same by reason of a will as a residuary legatee and the defendants appellants or their employees or agents were restrained from performing the said seven ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by dr karanth.
appellants are thus before us.
the form of injunction granted in favour of the plaintiff respondent is not in terms of the provisions of the copyright act1957 as the appellant as an institution or otherwise is entitled to use the same in terms of clauses ai and l of sub section 1 of section 52 thereof.
the word author is defined in section 2d to meani in relation to a literary or dramatic work the author of the work ii in relation to a musical work the composer iii in relation to an artistic work other than a photograph the artist iv in relation to a photograph the person taking the photograph v in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording the producer and vi in relation to any literary dramatic musical or artistic work which is computer generated the person who causes the work to be created.
explanation.
provided that where the identity of the author is disclosed before the expiry of the said period copyright shall subsist until sixty years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
b where the identity of more authors than one is disclosed as references to the author who dies last from amongst such authors.
in sub section 1references to the author shall in the case of a pseudonymous work of joint authorship be construed.
a where the names of one or more but not all of the authors arc pseudonymous and his or their identity is not disclosed as references to the author whose name is not a pseudonym or if the names of two or more of the authors are not pseudonyms as references to such of those authors who dies last b where the names of one or more but not all of the authors arc pseudonyms and the identity of one or more of them is disclosed as references to the author who dies last from amongst the authors whose names are not pseudonyms and the authors whose names are pseudonyms and are disclosed and c where the names of all the authors arc pseudonyms and the identity of one of them is disclosed as references to the author whose identity is disclosed or if the identity of two or more of such authors is disclosed as references to such of those authors who dies last.
neither of the two can be produced without the imaginative skill of the author.
costumes choreography and direction by dr karanth the appellants can do so only in accordance with the provisions of the copyrights act1957 in view of copyright in seven prasangas vesting with the plaintiff.
the court while passing such a decree is obligated to consider the statutory provisions governing the same.
