leave granted.
these appeals have been preferred from the judgment and order of the high court dated 25 11 2009 in writ petitions civil no 464572009.
the appellants challenge the acquisition of their agricultural lands by the state of uttar pradesh for the construction of the district jail of shahjahanpur.
the appellants themselves are bhumidar with transferable rights and are residents of village murchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur uttar pradesh.
the state of uttar pradesh vide its office memorandum dated 25 10 2004 constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the honourable minister of revenue to suggest its recommendations for transfer of prisons situated in the congested areas of various districts.
after conducting its second and final meeting on 10th.
january2005the said committee recommended to the state government the shifting of the district jails from congested areas to outside the city limits within the district.
as per the schedule this shifting was to be done in two phases 1 st phase 1 district jail shahjahanpur 2 district jail azamgarh 3 district jail jaunpur and 4 district jail moradabad 2 nd phase 1 district jail badaun 2 district jail varanasi 3 district jail barielly and 4 district jail muzaffarnagar.
the existing district jail of shahjahanpur constructed in 1870was one of the oldest and required shifting to new premises.
the government case is that the district jail is located in a densely populated area of the city and is overcrowded housing as many as 1869 prisoners while having a capacity of only 511.
thereafter the state government constituted a committee under the chairmanship of chief secretary government of u p vide office memorandum dated 12 9 2007 to evaluate and consider the shifting of prisons identified to be shifted in the first phase.
prisons in the districts of lucknow moradabad were added to the list.
this committee was also to evaluate and recommend the means for modernisation of existing old prisons.
in its meeting dated 10 10 2007 the committee recommended that a detailed project report dpr be prepared by the rajkiya nirman nigam and that acquisition of lands for shifting of the prisons be done on a priority basis.
these recommendations were accepted by the state government vide the approval of the cabinet dated 7 12 2007 following this decision the director general of prisons administration and reformsuttar pradesh vide letter dated 04 06 2008requested the district magistrate shahjahanpur to send all the relevant records to the state government for publication of notification u ss 41 and 17 of the land acquisition act1894 hereinafter the act the land suggested for such acquisition by the divisional land utility committee was.
one admeasuring 25 89 hectares 63 93 acres in village morchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur.
thereafter the district magistrate shahjahanpur forwarded the proposal to the commissioner and director directorate of land acquisition revenue board uttar pradeshfor the issuance of notifications u ss 41 and 17 of the act which in turn approved of it and further forwarded the recommendation to the state government vide letter dated 2 07 2008.
thus the state government issued notifications u ss 41 and 17 on 21 08 2008.
however the provisions of section 5a inquiry were dispensed with.
the state government explained that this was done in view of the pressing urgency in the matter of construction of the jails.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid notifications the appellants moved a writ petition before the high court u art 226 of the constitution of india.
the high court in its decision dated 25 11 2009 refused to interfere with the selection of the site for the construction of the jail premises on the ground that it was not required to do so unless it found the selection of the site was wholly arbitrary.
the high court also approved the invoking of emergency provisions u s 17 of the act as per the guidelines given in essco fabs private limited and another vs state of haryana and another.
2 scc 377 2008 indlaw sc 2494 having thus stated the high court dismissed the writ petition.
before this court the appellants broadly raised the following arguments 1 whether or not the state government was justified in acquiring the said pieces of fertile agricultural land when there were alternative sites of unfertile banjar land available.
2 whether or not the state government was justified in dispensing with the inquiry which is mandated to be conducted under section 5a of the act especially when one year elapsed between the notifications u s 4 and the one u s 6 they further stated that the high court had erred insofar as it upheld the factum of urgency in the absence of a categorical finding an enquiry under section 5a would have been detrimental to public interest.
it was urged that it was clear from the counter of the respondent that the contemplation of a new prison was under consideration of the state government for several years.
committee was formed matter was discussed at a leisurely pace at various levels and there is no material fact to justify the abridgement of the appellants right of raising an objection to acquisition and of a hearing under section 5a of the act.
this court finds a lot of substance in the contentions of the appellants.
in connection with land acquisition proceeding whenever the provision of s 17 and its various sub sections including s 174 is used in the name of taking urgent or emergent action and the right of hearing of the land holder under section 5a is dispensed with the court is called upon to consider a few fundamentals in the exercise of such powers.
admittedly the land acquisition act a pre constitutional legislation of colonial vintage is a drastic law being expropriatory in nature as it confers on the state a power which affects person s property right.
even though right to property is no longer fundamental and was never a natural right and is acquired on a concession by the state it has to be accepted that without right to some property other rights become illusory.
this court is considering these questions especially in the context of some recent trends in land acquisition.
this court is of the opinion that the concept of public purpose in land acquisition has to be viewed from an angle which is consistent with the concept of a welfare state.
the concept of public purpose can not remain static for all time to come.
the concept even though sought to be defined u s 3f of the act is not capable of any precise definition.
the said definition having suffered several amendments has assumed the character of an inclusive one.
even though the concept of public purpose was introduced by pre constitutional legislation its application must be consistent with the constitutional ethos and especially the chapter under fundamental rights and also the directive principles.
by judicial interpretation the contents of these part iii rights are constantly expanded.
the meaning of public purpose in acquisition of land must be judged on the touchstone of this expanded view of part iii rights.
the open ended nature of our constitution needs a harmonious reconciliation between various competing principles and the overhanging shadows of socio economic reality in this country.
therefore the concept of public purpose on this broad horizon must also be read into the provisions of emergency power u s 17 with the consequential dispensation of right of hearing under section 5a of the said act.
the courts must examine these questions very carefully when little indians lose their small property in the name of mindless acquisition at the instance of the state.
this is part of the dynamics of statutory interpretation in the developing countries so that courts are not converted into rescue shelters for those who seek to defeat agrarian justice by cute transactions of many manifestations now so familiar in the country and illustrated by the several cases under appeal.
the judicial pronouncements on this aspect are numerous only a few of them may be noted here.
in dlf qutab enclave complex educational charitable trust vs state of haryana and ors 2003 5 scc 622 2003 indlaw sc 124this court construed the statute on town planning law and held expropriatory statute as is well known must be strictly construed.
the same principle has been reiterated subsequently by a three judge bench of this court in state of maharashtra and anr vs b e billimoria and ors 2003 7 scc 336 2003 indlaw sc 618 in the context of ceiling law.
ltd and ors 2007.
8 scc 705 2007 indlaw sc 554wherein this court construed the status of a person s right to property after deletion of art 191f from part iii by referring to various international covenants namely the declaration of human and civil rights this court held that even though right to property has ceased to be a fundamental right but it would however be given an express recognition as a legal right and also as a human right.
the history behind insertion of section 5a in the act of 1894 seems to be a decision of the division bench of calcutta high court in j e d ezra vs the secretary of state for india and ors reported in 7 c w n 249 in that case the properties of ezra were sought to be acquired under the pre amended provision of the act for expansion of the offices of the bank of bengal.
in challenging the said acquisition it was argued that the person whose property is going to be taken away should be allowed a hearing on the principles of natural justice.
however the judges found that there was no such provision in the act.
in order to remedy this shortcoming in the act of 1894an amendment by way of incorporation of section 5a was introduced on 11th july1923 the statement of objects and reasons for the said amendment is as follows the land acquisition act i of 1894 does not provide that persons having an interest in land which it is proposed to acquire shall have the right of objecting to such acquisition nor is government bound to enquire into and consider any objections that may reach them.
gazette of india pt.
in that case the court was considering the importance of rights under section 5a vis vis s 171 and s 171.
the same view has been reiterated by another three judge bench decision of this court in munshi singh and ors.
in hindustan petroleum corporation limited vs darius shahpur chennai and ors 2005 7 scc 627 2005 indlaw sc 578this court held that the right which is conferred under section 5a has to be read considering the provisions of article 300 a of the constitution and so construed the right under section 5a should be interpreted as being akin to a fundamental.
in our opinion therefore the contention of learned counsel for the respondent authorities is not well founded and can not be upheld that once a case is covered by sub ss 1 or 2 of s 17 of the act sub s 4 of s 17 would necessarily apply and there is no question of holding inquiry or hearing objections under section 5 a of the act.
a meeting for selection of the suitable site for construction was held on 27th june2008and the proposal for such acquisition and construction was sent to the director land acquisition on 2nd of july2008 this was in turn forwarded to the state government by the director on 22nd of july2008 after due consideration of the forwarded proposal and documents the state government issued the s 4 notification along with s 17 notification on 21st of august2008 these notifications were published in local newspapers on 24th of september2008.
the appeals are allowed.
appeals allowed.
