accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
it was an arranged marriage.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
the father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time because he lacked the resources.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
it is the case of the prosecution that for non payment of dowry the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
they even refused to send her to her parental house.
this was informed by the deceased to various persons including her relatives and elders.
she was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected by the accused persons.
on 15th february2003at about 11 a m the deceased committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused.
when pathan basheerunnisa lw3 returned from her work the accused sent her out giving her money to bring the soaps upon which she went out and when she came back she found the accused absent and the bride hanging in the house.
subsequently lw 3 pathan basheerunnisa sent her grandson pathan inayatullah khan lw 4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
when the parents of the deceased came to the house of the accused and found the deceased hanging from the beam with a saree they untied her and took her to the government general hospital guntur hoping that the deceased may be alive.
however upon medical examination by the doctor she was declared brought dead.
the father of the deceased pathan yasin khan lw 1 and her mother pathan shamshad begum lw 2 were present at that time.
lw 1lodged the report which was registered by sri k srinivasarao lw 16the sub inspector of police.
the fir was registered under section 304b and section 498a of the indian penal code1860 for short the ipc thereafter investigation was conducted by one shri p devadass lw 17 he inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
this was done in the presence of lw 10 and lw 11shaik ibrahim and mohd ghouse respectively.
thereupon the body was sent for postmortem examination through constable p venkateswara reddy lw 15 lw 17p devdass also took photographs of the scene 3 lw 13dr.
m madhusudana reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia as a result of hanging.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
they faced the trial and were convicted by learned sixth additional munsif magistrate guntur for committing an offence under sections 498a and 304b ipc.
they were committed to the court of sessions guntur division guntur for such an offence.
they faced the trial and the learned sessions judge vide its judgment dated 4th october2004 found them guilty of the said offences and punished them as follows hence a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo r i for three years and further sentenced to pay a fine of rs 1000 each total fine amount rs 3000 offence punishable u s 498 a ipc i d of the fine amount of rs 1000 to undergo si for 9 months.
the undergone remand period of a 1 to a 3 shall be set off u s 428 cr.
p c m o 1 shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
the unmarked property if any shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
the judgment dated 4th october2004 passed by the learned trial court was challenged in appeal before the high court.
the high court of andhra pradesh vide its judgment dated 26th october2006while allowing the appeal in part convicted accused nos 1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences however acquitted accused no 3namely pathan khadar basha.
the sentence awarded by the trial court was confirmed.
this gave rise to filing of the present appeals.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
accused were charged with offences under sections 498a and 304b of the ipc the fir in the present case was lodged by lw 1who is the father of the deceased.
he had given only rs 15000 and had agreed to pay rs 10000 after four months.
this witness has further specifically stated that the said accused treated his daughter in a proper manner for about two months.
in the marriage he had also given a gold chain a double bed an iron safe and other items.
a ceiling fan was lying with the witness and he gave that to his son in law however he protested the same on the ground that the old fan is not acceptable to him and he would like to have a new fan which was bought for rs 650 by the witness and given to his son in law.
the accused asked for rs 1000 with a ring for the deceased.
his daughter after the ramzan festival had informed him that the accused persons were harassing her and were even beating and abusing her.
the statement of this witness i e lw 1 is corroborated by lw 3 and lw 7.
it is stated by lw 3 that she knew all the accused persons as she was residing in the house of the accused and the deceased.
after bringing the soaps she went to the house of the accused persons and found that the accused was absent and the deceased was hanging on one side of the room.
lw 4pathan inayatullah khan the grandson of lw 3went to the house of the parents of the deceased and informed them about the unfortunate incident.
lw 7 stated on oath that he was present at the time of giving of dowry to the accused by the family of the deceased.
13 if.
section 304 b ipc is read together with section 113 b of the evidence act a comprehensive picture emerges that if a married woman dies in unnatural circumstances at her matrimonial home within 7 years from her marriage and there are allegations of cruelty or harassment upon such married woman for or in connection with demand of dowry by the husband or relatives of the husband the case would squarely come under dowry death and there shall be a presumption against the husband and the relatives.
in the case of ashok kumar v state of haryana 2010 12 scc 350 2010 indlaw sc 502this court explained these terms in some elucidation and the effect of the deeming fiction appearing in the section as follows 11 the appellant was charged with an offence under section 304 b of the code.
the explanation to this section requires that the expression dowry shall have the same meaning as in s 2 of the act.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
in this actdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
from the above definition it is clear thatdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly by one party to another by parents of either party to each other or any other person at before or at any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr under the muslim personal law.
the expression in connection with the marriage can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
thus the cruelty harassment and demand of dowry should not be so ancient whereafter the couple and the family members have lived happily and that it would result in abuse of the said protection.
it is for the accused to show that the death of the deceased did not result from any cruelty or demand of dowry by the accused persons.
the high court acquitted pathan khadar basha the fatherin law of the deceased as there was no direct evidence against him.
