we have heard learned counsel on both sides.
the admitted facts are that the respondents through their agents had registered trade mark raleigh and other trade marks 12 marks under the indian merchandise marks act1889 4 of 1989 and the trade marks act1940 5 of 1940 the trade and merchandise marks act1958 43 of 1958 for short the act which came into force with effect from october 31958 has repealed the predecessor act and now the act is in operation.
the respondents entered into an agreement with sudhir kumar sen on november 31948 to render technical know how to the indian company to be formed which would manufacture bicycles and market them under raleigh s indian trade marks.
pursuant thereto a company called sen raleigh limited came into existence which manufactured cycles with technical assistance by the respondents raleigh industries of u k and marketed the bicycles with a brand name and trade marks belonging to the respondents.
on april 241954sen.
raleigh was recorded as permitted users of the trade marks.
by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.
the agreement dated december 291962 was modified and the respondents were given option to terminate the agreement.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
on march 281978joint application by sen raleigh and the appellant duly signed by the respondent as proprietor and sen raleigh limited as registered user came to be made before the registrar of trade marks.
on october 241980sen raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant corporation by publication of the notification under idr act.
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.
on march 241982the appellant made an application under sections 3246 and 56 of the act against the respondents in the high court of calcutta in suit no 26692 pleading inter alia that the respondents had failed to provide technical assistance by passing the technical know how to sen raleigh after november 11976 neither the appellant nor sen raleigh were registered users of the trade mark after november 11976.
u s 482 of the act up to the date of one month before filing that rectification application.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
having regard to the extended nature of non user of the concerned trade mark after november 11976any further use of the said trade marks by the respondents was likely to deceive and cause confusion to the trade and public alike in india.
there is no specific bar for an unregistered lincesee to use registered trade mark so long as there is a connection in the course of trade between the licenser and the lincesee.
thus this appeal by special leave.
shri raju ramchandran learned senior counsel for the appellant raised three fold contentions.
the court while exercising its discretion u s 46 should look into not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest.
the discretion exercised by the court must be judged in the light of the facts and circumstances the appellant having used the trade mark it does not lie in the mouth of the appellant to contend that he is not a permitted user or a bona fide user of the trade mark.
subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a xxx xxx xxx xxx b that up to a date of one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being.
s 48 provides for registered users which reads thus 48 registered users  1 subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark but the central government may by rules made in this behalf provide that no application for registration as such shall be entertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks 2 permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be use by the proprietor thereof and shall be used by a person the proprietor for the purpose of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.
s 48 1 envisages that subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as a registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as defensive trade mark.
the central government is empowered to prevent trafficking in trade mark.
the metal godds mfg.
