the appellant is a company incorporated under the companies act1956 with the object of manufacture and sale of cigarettes.
members of general public are the shareholders and the shares of the company are traded in through various stock exchanges in the country.
a petition was filed under article 226 of the constitution by respondent no 1 seeking for a writ of mandamus to treat the members of the respondent union who are employees working in the canteen of the appellants factory as employees of the appellant and for grant of monetary and other consequential benefits.
the canteen is provided in the factory premises of the appellant pursuant to section 46 of the factories act1948 hereinafter referred to as the actwhich obliges a factory employing more than 250 workmen to provide such a canteen.
on behalf of the respondents it is contended that the appellant had been managing the canteen up to the year 1982 and thereafter introduced the contract system for maintaining the canteen so established that though the management of the canteen had been entrusted to the contractors from time to time the personnel employed in the canteen were retained by all the contractors and they have been paid salaries through contractors that the workmen employed in the canteen have been provided with esi benefits under the code No.
vst the appellant and benefits arising under the employees provident funds act are also provided similarly that the appellant has also provided a building along with furniture utensils cutlery gas electricity water supply and other facilities that the contractor is engaged only to prepare the food and serve it to the employees and that the quality of the food and the rates are controlled by the management of the appellant.
on behalf of the appellant contention was raised that no writ would lie against the appellant inasmuch as the appellant is a company which is not an authority or a person against whom a writ would lie.
the learned single judge who decided the matter in the first instance held that a writ would lie against a company under a private management following the decision in t gattaiah vs commissioner of labour1981 ii llj 54 1981 indlaw ap 26in which it was held that establishment of a canteen and its maintenance is a statutory requirement under section 46 of the act a public duty is imposed on the company to establish and maintain the canteen inasmuch as members of the respondent union are working in the canteen they are entitled to seek a mandamus.
he therefore held that when a public duty is called upon to be discharged by a private management a writ of mandamus would lie and could be issued under article 226 of the constitution.
he thus rejected the contention.
on the merits of the matter the learned single judge followed the decision in parimal chandra rahas case holding that when the duty had been enjoined on the appellant to provide and maintain a canteen facility under the factories act it becomes the obligation of the appellant to establish a canteen and that is what the appellant had done.
therefore when that work is got done through somebody else by providing the necessary infrastructure and other facilities when the personnel did not change though the contractors changed from time to time he held that they become employees of the appellant.
on that basis the learned single judge granted reliefs sought for by the respondents however imposing certain restrictions with regard to the age being medically fit on the date of the writ petition had put in a minimum of three years of continuous service and such service prior to the attainment of the minimum qualifying age under the company should be ignored.
on appeal the division bench of the high court affirmed the view taken by the learned single judge.
the division bench referred to their decision in rakesh gupta vs hyderabad stock exchange ltd hyderabad ors.
air 1996 ap 430 1996 indlaw ap.
302that a writ in the nature of mandamus certiorari and prohibition are recognised as public law remedies and are not available to enforce private law rights.
however noticing that the expression any person or authority used in article 226 of the constitution should not be confined only to statutory authorities and instrumentalities of state but would cover any other person or body performing public duty.
the form of the body concerned is not very much relevant.
the duty must be judged in the light of positive obligation owed by the person or authority to the affected party no matter by what means the duty is imposed.
on that basis the division bench of the high court dismissed the writ appeal.
on behalf of the appellant contention put forth at the forefront is that a writ would not lie against the appellant inasmuch as the appellant is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and as an incident thereto has provided a canteen to its workmen pursuant to an obligation under section 46 of the act.
in that case the respondent was managing the affiliated college to which public money is paid as government aid which played a major role in the control maintenance and working of educational institutions.
the aided institutions it was noticed like government institutions discharge public function by way of imparting education to students.
they were subject to the rules and regulations of the affiliating university and their activities were closely supervised by the university authorities.
employment in such institutions therefore is not devoid of any public character inasmuch as the service conditions of the academic staff were controlled by the university particularly in regard to their pay scales and the protection by university decisions creating a legal right or duty relationship between the staff and the management.
it was further explained in that decision that the term authority used in article 226 of the constitution should receive a liberal meaning unlike the term in article 12which is only for the purpose of enforcement of fundamental rights under article 32 the words any person or authority used in article 226 are therefore not be confined only to statutory authorities or instrumentalities of the state but would cover any other person or body performing public duty.
the duty must be judged in the light of positive obligation owed by the person or authority to the affected party no matter by what means the duty is imposed if a positive obligation exists mandamus can not be denied.
by way of illustration it is noticed that a private company selected to run a prison although motivated by commercial profit should be regarded at least in relation to some of its activities as subject to public law because of the nature of the function it is performing.
after detailed discussion the learned authors have summarized the position with the following propositions 1 the test of whether a body is performing a public function and is hence amenable to judicial review may not depend upon the source of its power or whether the body is ostensibly a public or a private body.
2 the principles of judicial review prima facie govern the activities of bodies performing public functions.
in such a case the express or implied terms of the agreement should normally govern the matter.
this reflects the normal approach of english law namely that the terms of a contract will normally govern the transaction or other relationship between the parties rather than the general law.
the high court has relied very strongly on the decision of a learned single judge in t gattaiahs case wherein it was stated that a writ may lie under article 226 of the constitution against a company incorporated under the companies act1956 as it is permissible to issue a writ against any person.
incidental to that activity there is an obligation under section 46 of the act to set up a canteen when the establishment has more than 250 workmen.
if merely what can be considered a part of the conditions of service of a workman is violated then we do not think there is any justification to hold that such activity will amount to public duty.
the canteen has been there since the inception of the appellants factory.
the premises furniture fixture fuel electricity utensils etc have been provided for by the appellant.
the wages of the canteen workers have to be reimbursed by the appellant.
the supervision and control on the canteen is exercised by the appellant through its authorised officer as can be seen from the various clauses of the contract between the appellant and the contractor.
the contractor is nothing but an agent or a manager of the appellant who works completely under the supervision control and directions of the appellant.
the workmen have the protection of continuous employment in the establishment.
in the present case the findings recorded by the learned single judge on examination of the facts available is that there had been a canteen within the premises of the appellant up to the year 1982 and it is only from 1982 onwards the management of the canteen has been entrusted to a private contractor that even after change of the contractor the canteen workers have continued to be the same irrespective of the change in the contractors from time to time that wages were paid to the workmen in the canteen by the management through the contractor that the appellant has provided the accommodation furniture fuel electricity utensils etc.
thus these circumstances clearly indicate that the appellant has a complete control over the activities in respect of the canteen and the contractor has absolutely no discretion either in regard to the menu quality and quantity of the food items much less the rate at which the same are supplied to the workmen.
we do agree that the respondents have a strong case on merits.
however in the special features of the case although we do not agree with the high court on the first question raised we feel after clarifying the legal position that we should not disturb the decision given by the high court.
the contesting respondents contended that the workmen in the canteen had been working right from its inception that is since 1967 that from 1976 onwards after expiry of the contract with the industrial catering services they had been directly working with the appellant without any contractor that they sought for regularization of their services by letter dated 28 february 1978 that the said letter was corrected and redrafted by the personnel manager to indicate the idea of floating an association society to run the canteen that this modified request contained in ex.
the tribunal held against them as there was no material to show that the management had discussed on each point and thereafter an agreement had been drafted.
the contributions like esi provident fund etc had also been categorically specified to be provided by the appellant and esi code for the permanent establishment and for the present workmen was the same that after the evidence was tendered by the workmen the appellant got the code changed and the appellant transferred the workmen from one place to another and that the amount to be surrendered by way of unpaid salaries had to be remitted back to the management.
thus the tribunal held that these facts clearly indicated that the appellant exercised administrative financial and disciplinary control over the workmen in question.
the tribunal held that no other material is required to hold them to be employees of the appellant.
in those circumstances the tribunal passed an award that these workmen should be treated as employees of the appellant and they are entitled to payment of appropriate scales and designations in terms of ex.
the reference had been made to the tribunal and adjudication had been made by the tribunal as to the status of the workmen the nature of employment control exercised by the appellant which leave no room for doubt that they are the employees of the appellant.
it is contended that under the petroleum rules framed under the petroleum act1934there are certain hazardous areas where there can not be a canteen as no fire furnace source of heat or light capable of igniting inflammable vapours shall be allowed except in the firing spaces or stills and boilers.
it is brought to our notice that a fire had taken place on a tank on 14 september 1997 and that it was extinguished after 14 days which severely damaged all the building including the canteen and that food and beverages being provided to its employees by making an arrangement to obtain the same from outside the premises of the appellant.
this contention is also rejected.
