these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
they having come to learn that certain vacancies exist in the respondent authority applied therefor although no advertisement in that behalf was issued.
the respondent authority appointed the appellants and posted them to an overseas project known as indore habitat project which was implemented through the agency of overseas development authority hereinafter referred to as the oda on daily wages.
rs 63 per day for the degree holders and rs 52 50 per day for the diploma holders.
on or about 17 3 1997 however they began receiving a salary of rs 1500 per month.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
they were also being granted the benefit of leave.
the said dispute was referred for adjudication of the labour court indore by the state of madhya pradesh on the following questions.
the parties filed their respective pleadings before the labour court and also adduced their respective evidences.
aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award the respondent authority herein filed a writ petition before the madhya pradesh high court indore bench which was marked as writ petition no 1188 of 1997.
as regard the application of the madhya pradesh industrial employment standing orders act 1961 for short the 1961 act and the rules framed there under known as m p industrial employment standing order rules 1963 for short the 1963 rules it was observed that although there was no specific pleadings raised in this behalf by the respondents therein nor any question having been referred to the labour court by the state government touching the said issue it committed an error in granting relief to them on the basis thereof on its own motion.
dr rajiv dhawan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 and mr m n rao learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 335 of 2002 took us through materials on records and contended that the appellants herein became permanent employees of the respondents having regard to the provisions contained in section 2 of the 1961 act and order 2i and 2vi of the standard standing orders as set out in the annexure appended to the 1963 rules defining permanent employees and the temporary employees.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
the learned counsel would submit that the sufficient materials were brought on records to show that vacancies were available and as the appellants worked for a period of more than six months they became permanent employees in terms of the act.
the learned counsel would submit that in fact no appointment letter was issued to the appellants.
whereupon the chief executive officer on the body of the said application itself made the following endorsement he may be tried in daily wages and should be entrusted with the work of progress collection of oda work put with illegible.
2 of the standard standing order reads as under 2.
classification of employees.
i a permanent employee is one who has completed six months satisfactory service in a clear vacancy in one or more posts whether as a probationer or otherwise or a person whose name has been entered in the muster roll and who is given a ticket of permanent employee vi.
temporary employee means an employee who has been employed for work which is essentially of a temporary character or who is temporarily employed as an additional employee in connection with the temporary increase in the work of a permanent nature provided that in case such employee is required to work continuously for more than six months he shall be deemed to be a permanent employee within the meaning of cl.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
section 76b provides for constitution of development authorities service.
it is also not in dispute that the state government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the adhiniyam has made rules known as m p development authority services officers and servants recruitment rules 1987.
the posts of sub engineers in which the appellants were appointed.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
jt 2004 6 sc 110 2004 indlaw sc 606 a three judge bench of this court of which we were members upon taking into consideration a large number of decisions held although we do not intend to express any opinion as to whether the cooperative society is a state within the meaning of article but it is beyond any cavil of doubt that the writ petition will be maintainable when the action of the cooperative society is violative of mandatory statutory provisions.
the state has not created any post nor they could do so on their own.
it was in fact held that as the petitioners therein were not regularized in accordance with the prescribed rules and regulations for regular appointments their services had to be terminated and as such there had been neither any arbitrary nor illegal action on the part of the respondents nor any violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed under articles 14 and 16.
sub s 2 of section 6 reads as under where immediately before the commencement of this act standing order are in force in respect of any undertaking such standing orders shall until standard standing orders are applied to such undertaking under sub s.
no notification has been brought to our notice that the standard standing orders had been made applicable to the appellants.
it is accepted that no appointment letter was issued in favour of the appellants.
permanent employee has been divided in two categories i who had been appointed against a clear vacancy in one or more posts as probationers and otherwise and ii whose name had been registered at muster roll and who has been given a ticket of permanent employee.
the questions which have been raised before us by dr dhawan had not been raised before the labour court.
such a plea had expressly been rejected by this court in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra.
y s shetty and others 2000 10 scc 179 1999 indlaw sc 2211 and m d u p land development corporation and another vs.
if a document was called for in absence of any pleadings the same was not relevant.
the labour court did not draw any adverse inference.
2004 indlaw sc 829 this court observed in such a factual background in our opinion the industrial court or the high court could not have drawn an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the year 1990 to 1992 in the absence of specific pleading by the respondents applicants that at least during that period they had worked for 240 days continuously in a given year.
equal pay for equal work.
