appellant before us was detained u s 3 of the conservation of foreign exchange and prevention of smuggling activities.
act1974.
he is the managing director of a company registered and incorporated under the provisions of the companies act known as m s sundesh springs private limited.
it was an exporter and held a valid licence therefor.
the company was to export products of alloy steel.
upon exporting of alloy steel it was entitled to credits under the duty entitlement pass book depb.
scheme introduced by the government of india with an object of encouraging exports.
he allegedly misdeclared both the value and description of goods upon procuring fake and false bills through one prabhjot singh.
the said prabhjot singh was said to have been operating three firms viz.
m s s p industrial corporation m s.
aaysons india and m s p j sales corporation ludhiana.
it was allegedly found that non alloy steel bars rods etc of value ranging from rs 15 to rs 17 per kg were exported in the guise of alloy steel forgings bars rods etc by declaring their value thereof from rs 110 to rs 150 per kg and the export proceeds over and above the actual price were being routed through hawala channel.
the officers of the directorate of revenue intelligence dri searched the factory as well as the residential premises of appellant and that of prabhjot singh.
various incriminating documents were recovered.
appellant and the said prabhjot singh made statements u s 108 of the customs act.
prabhjot singh allegedly admitted to have supplied fake bills to units owned and controlled by appellant on commission basis without actual supply of the goods.
it was also found that appellant had declared goods exported as alloy steel whereas after the tests conducted by central revenue control laboratory they were found to be other than alloy steeli e.
non alloy.
the consul economicconsulate general of india at dubai allegedly confirmed the existence of a parallel set of export invoices.
invoices with a higher value were presented before the indian customs authorities with a view to avail depb incentives but in fact invoices with a lower value were presented for clearance.
on the aforementioned allegations an order of detention was issued on 5 4 2005 appellant moved for issuance of a writ of habeas corpus before the high court of judicature of punjab and haryana.
although before the high court the principal ground urged on behalf of appellant in questioning the legality or validity of the order of detention was unexplained delay in passing the order of detention which did not find favour with the high court.
before us several other grounds viz.
in the meantime admittedly the period of detention being over appellant had been set at large.
this appeal however has been pressed as a proceeding under the smugglers and foreign exchange manipulators forfeiture of property act1976 for short safemahas been initiated against appellant.
in this regard we may notice the following dates.
20 12 2004the authorities of the dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny.
furthermore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellants.
the final order of detention was preceded not only on the basis of raids conducted in various premises recording of statements of a large number of witnesses carrying on intensive inquiries both within india and outside india obtaining test reports from three different laboratories but also the fact that despite notices appellant and his associates did not cooperate with the investigating authorities.
we must also notice that in the meantime on 20 12 2004the authorities of the dri had clearly stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under the scrutiny stating in our letter mentioned above your office was requested not to issue the depb scripts to m s girnar impex limited and m s siri amar exports only in respect of the pending application if any filed by these parties up to the date of action i e 11 10 2003 as the past exports were under scrutiny being doubtful as per the intelligence received in this office.
this office never intended to stop the export incentives occurring to the parties after the date of action i e 11 10 2003 in the civil your office letter.
furthermore as noticed hereinbefore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellant.
the said documents in our opinion were material.
the question came up for consideration recently in rajinder arora v union of india and others 2006 4 scc 796 2006 indlaw sc 87 wherein it has been held furthermore no explanation whatsoever has been offered by the respondent as to why the order of detention has been issued after such a long time.
the question as regard delay in issuing the order of detention has been held to be a valid ground for quashing an order of detention by this court in t d abdul rahman v state of kerala and others air 1990 sc 225 1989 indlaw sc 205 stating the conspectus of the above decisions can be summarised thus the question whether the prejudicial activities of a person necessitating to pass an order of detention is proximate to the time when the order is made or the live link between the prejudicial activities and the purpose of detention is snapped depends on the facts and circumstances of each case.
no hard and fast rule can be precisely formulated that would be applicable under all circumstances and no exhaustive guidelines can be laid down in that behalf.
we may notice that in sk.
it would be reasonable to assume that if the district magistrate of burdwan was really and genuinely satisfied after proper application of mind to the materials before him that it was necessary to detain the petitioner with a view to preventing him from acting in a prejudicial manner he would have acted with greater promptitude both in making the order of detention as also in securing the arrest of the petitioner and the petitioner would not have been allowed to remain at large for such a long period of time to carry on his nefarious activities.
in abdul salam alias thiyyan s o thiyyan mohammad detenu no 962general prison trivandrum v union of india and others 1990 3 scc 15 1990 indlaw sc 994 whereupon the learned additional solicitor general has placed strong reliance this court found that there had been potentiality or likelihood of prejudicial activities and thus or mere delay as long as it is explained the court may not strike down the detention.
it may be true that the period of detention is over.
in a case of this nature we do not think in view of the admitted facts that we would not permit appellant to raise the said questions.
v by orders dated 31 8 2004 and 28 10 2004the civil judge directed release of documents to appellant.
by an order dated 18 11 2004the civil court issued contempt notice to the authorities of dri for non release of documents and the authorities of dri made a statement before the court that the documents are being returned.
but indisputably those documents involving the civil court proceedings were not placed before the detaining authority.
it may be that the detaining authority might have come to the same conclusion as the sponsoring authority but its contents are relevant which could not be withheld by the sponsoring authority.
the statements of appellant and prabhjot singh were noticed by the detaining authority.
it is however stated that the records were tampered with at the instance of appellant.
but the said information report was registered only on 6 4 2005 and not prior to the date of order of detention.
considering the nature and gravity of the offence the well planned manner in which you have engaged yourself in such prejudicial activities and your role therein as brought out above all of which reflect your high potentiality and propensity to indulge in such prejudicial activities in future i am satisfied that there is a need to prevent you from indulging in such prejudicial activities in future by detention under cofeposa act1974 with a view to preventing you from smuggling goods in future.
recording of such statement must have been made from the xeroxed copies of such documents which were available with the detaining authority.
the same was not done.
it may be true that appellant in his representation dated 14 06 2005 requested for showing him the original documents referred to or mentioned in the grounds of detention but then at least the xeroxed copies thereof should have been made available to him.
it is not sufficient to say that the detenus were not supplied the copies of the documents in time on demand but it must further be shown that the non supply has impaired the detenu s right to make an effective and purposeful representation.
demand of any or every document however irrelevant it may be for the concerned detenu merely on the ground that there is a reference thereto in the grounds of detention cannot vitiate an otherwise legal detention order.
in the present case except stating that the documents were not supplied before the meeting of the advisory board there is no pleading that it had resulted in the impairment of his right nor could counsel for the petitioners point out any such prejudice.
it is a trite law that all documents which are not material are not necessary to be supplied.
what is necessary to be supplied is the relevant and the material documents but thus all relevant documents must be supplied so as to enable the detenue to make an effective representation which is his fundamental right u art 225 of the constitution of india.
the appeal is allowed.
appeal allowed.
