leave granted.
challenge in this appeal is to the judgment of a division bench of the madhya pradesh high court dismissing the writ appeal filed by the appellant on the ground that it was not maintainable.
the appeal was filed u s 21 of the m p uchacha nyayalay khand nyaypeth ko appeal adhiniyam2005.
hereinafter referred to as the act it was held that the order was passed in exercise of power of superintendence u art 227 of the constitution of india1950 in short the constitution against which the letters patent appeal is not maintainable.
the order of learned single judge was passed on 9 11 2005 against the said order special leave petition was filed which was disposed of by this court by order dated 16 2 2006 we shall refer to the text of the order later.
the high court construed as if this court has only waived the limitation for filing of letters patent appeal and there was no direction to consider the case on merits.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of this court is very clear and the conclusions of the high court that merely limitation was waived is contrary to the clear terms of the earlier order of this court.
additionally it is submitted that the prayer in the writ petition was to quash the order passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax.
that being so the mere fact that the writ petition was styled u art 227 of the constitution is of no consequence.
it is the nature of the relief sought for and the controversy involved which determines the article which is applicable.
learned counsel for the respondent state on the other hand supported the impugned judgment of the high court.
the earlier order passed by this court dated 22 8 2006 reads as follows heard.
since the impugned order is passed by a learned single judge.
the normal remedy is to file a letters patent appeal.
since we had entertained the special leave petition against the learned single judge s order it would be appropriate to grant three weeks time to the petitioner to prefer the lpa which if otherwise free from defect shall be entertained for being considered on merits.
the interim order passed by this court shall continue for the aforesaid purpose.
the special leave petition is disposed of accordingly.
a bare reading of the order shows that the direction was to consider the lpa on merits and time was granted to prefer the lpa within three weeks.
the high court was directed to dispose of the lpa on merits if it was otherwise free from defect.
the high court was therefore not justified in holding that this court s earlier order only waived the limitation for filing a letters patent appeal.
s 2 of the act reads as follows 21.
an appeal shall lie from a judgment or order passed by the one judge of the high court in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution of india to a division bench comprising of two judges of the same high court.
as noted above the prayer in the writ petition was to set aside the decision of the assessing officer.
it was noted as follows.
u art 226 an order direction or writ is to issue to a person authority or the state.
in a proceeding under that article the person authority or state against whom the direction order or writ is sought is a necessary party.
prior to the commencement of the constitution the chartered high courts as also the judicial committee had held that the power to issue prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts was an exercise of original jurisdiction see mahomedalli allabux v ismailji abdulali air 1926.
co ltd v.
ram tahel ramnand air 1972 sc 1598 1972 indlaw sc 378.
it was noted as follows.
the non obstante clause in rule 18namelynotwithstanding anything contained in rules 14 and 17 of this chaptermakes it abundantly clear why that rule uses the words finally disposed of.
but precludes him from passing any final order on such application.
it is because a single judge has no power under rules 14 and 17 to hear and dispose of a petition u art 226 or 227 that the non obstante clause has been introduced in rule 18 the use of the words be heard and finally disposed of by a single judge in rule 18 merely clarifies the position that in such cases the power of the single judge is not confined merely to issuing a rule nisi.
in sushilabai laxminarayan mudliyar v nihalchand waghajibhai shaha 1993 supp 1 scc 11 1991 indlaw sc 718.
this court with reference to an unreported judgment in ratnagiri district central co operative bank ltd v.
even when the learned single judge s order has been passed under both the articles for deciding the maintainability against such an order what would be relevant is the principal or main relief granted by the judgment passed by learned single judge and not the ancillary directions given by him.
the event in his judgment the learned single judge himself had mentioned the particular article of the constitution under which he was passing his judgment in an appeal under cl 15 against such a judgment it may not be necessary for the appellate bench to elaborately examine the question of its maintainability.
when a combined application u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution is summarily dismissed without reasons the appeal court may consider whether the facts alleged warranted filing of the application u art 226 or u art 227 of the constitution.
thereafter this court explained the ratio laid down in the case of umaji s case1986 indlaw sc 651 supra and expressed thus in umaji case it was clearly held that where the facts justify a party in filing an application either u art 226 or 227 of the constitution of india and the party chooses to file his application under both these articles in fairness of justice to party and in order not to deprive him of valuable right of appeal the court ought to treat the application as being made under article 226and if in deciding the matter in the final order the court gives ancillary directions which may pertain to article 227this ought not to be held to deprive a party of the right of appeal under cl 15 of the letters patent where the substantial part of the order sought to be appealed against is u art 226 rule 18 of the bombay high court appellate side rules read with cl 15 of the letters patent provides for appeal to the division bench of the high court from a judgment of the learned single judge passed on a writ petition u art 226 of the constitution.
the findings of the rent controller and resident deputy collector were set aside on the question of habitual defaulter as well as on the ground of bona fide need.
after taking the aforesaid view one course open was to set aside the order of the division bench and to remand the matter for being disposed of on merits by the division bench of the high court.
however taking in view the fact that this litigation is going on for nearly a decade and also the fact that even the learned single judge in his impugned order dated december 111987 had remanded the case to the rent controller we considered it proper in the interest of justice to hear the appeal on merits against the judgment of the learned single judge.
it is true as submitted by learned counsel for the appellant that the order of the learned single judge nowhere stated that the court was considering the writ petition u art 226 of the constitution of india.
the said observation equally supports the conclusion that the learned judge was not inclined to interfere u arts 226 and 227 as seen earlier he was considering the aforesaid writ petition moved u art 226 as well as art 227 of the constitution of india.
under these circumstances it is not possible to agree with the contention of learned counsel for the appellant that the learned single judge had refused to interfere only u art 227 of the constitution of india when he dismissed the writ petition of the respondent.
in this connection it is profitable to have a look at the decision of this court in the case of umaji keshao meshram v radhikabai 1986 supp.
scc 401 1986 indlaw sc 651 in.
madon j speaking for the court made the following pertinent observations petitions are at times filed both u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution.
the case of hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 before this court was of such a type.
rule 18 provides that where such petitions are filed against orders of the tribunals or authorities specified in rule 18 of chapter xvii of the appellate side rules or against decrees or orders of courts specified in that rule they shall be heard and finally disposed of by a single judge.
in our opinion where the facts justify a party in filing an application either u art 226 or 227 of the constitution and the party chooses to file his application under both these articles in fairness and justice to such party and in order not to deprive him of the valuable right of appeal the court ought to treat the application as being made under article 226and if in deciding the matter in the final order the court gives ancillary directions which may pertain to article 227this ought not to be held to deprive a party of the right of appeal under cl 15 of the letters patent where the substantial part of the order sought to 296be appealed against is u art 226 such was the view taken by the allahabad high court in aidal singh v karan singh air 1957 all 414 1956 indlaw all 107 and by the punjab high court in raj kishan jain v tulsi dass air 1959 punj 291 1958 indlaw pnh 109 and barham dutt v peoples coop.
consequently it could not be said that cl 15 of the letters patent was not attracted for preferring appeal against the judgment of the learned single judge.
it is also necessary to note that the appellant being the respondent in letters patent appeal joined issues on merits and did not take up the contention that the letters patent appeal was not maintainable.
for all these reasons therefore the primary objection to the maintainability of the letters patent appeal as canvassed by learned counsel for the appellant has to be repelled.
point 1 is therefore answered in the affirmative against the appellant and in favour of the respondent.
commissioner of hills division.
air 1958 sc 398 1958 indlaw sc 62t c basappa v t nagappa air 1954 sc 440 1954 indlaw sc 39 and rupa ashok hurra v ashok hurra air 2002 sc 1771 2002 indlaw sc 1966this court held as follows from the aforesaid enunciation of law it is quite vivid and luminescent that the pleadings in the writ petition nature of the order passed by the learned single judge character and the contour of the order directions issued nomenclature given the jurisdictional prospective in the constitutional context are to be perceived.
phraseology used in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution in s 2 of the act can not be given a restricted and constricted meaning because an order passed in a writ petition can tantamount to an order u art 226 or 227 of the constitution of india and it would depend upon the real nature of the order passed by the learned single judge.
it would not be an over emphasis to state that an order in a writ petition can fit into the subtle contour of arts 226 and 227 of the constitution in a composite manner and they can coincide co exit overlap imbricate.
upon a review of decided cases and a survey of the occasions wherein the high courts have exercised jurisdiction to command a writ of certiorari or to exercise supervisory jurisdiction u art 227 in the given facts and circumstances in a variety of cases it seems that the distinction between the two jurisdictions stands almost obliterated in practice.
in exercise of supervisory jurisdiction the high court may not only quash or set aside the impugned proceedings judgment or order but it may also make such directions as the facts and circumstances of the case may warrant maybe by way of guiding the inferior court or tribunal as to the manner in which it would now proceed further or afresh as commended to or guided by the high court.
