yakshagana is a form of ballet dance.
it has its own heritage.
indisputably dr kota shivarama karanth for shortdr.
karantha jnanapeeth awardee who was a novelist play writer essayist encyclopediationist cultural anthropologist artist writer of science environmentalist.
he developed a new form of yakshagana.
he was a director of the appellant institute.
karanth expired on 9 12 1997 yakshagana ballet dance as developed by dr karanth was performed in new delhi on or about 18 9 2001 respondent filed a suit for declaration injunction and damages alleging violation of the copyright in respect of the said dance vested in her in terms of the said will stating that dr karanth developed a new distinctive dance drama troop or theatrical system which was named by him as yaksha ranga which in his own words mean creative extension of traditional yakshagana and thus the appellants infringed the copyright thereof by performing the same at new delhi without obtaining her prior permission.
these prasangas are i bhishma vijaya ii nala damayanthi iii kanakangi or kanakangi kalyana iv abhimanyu or abhimanyu vada v chitrangadha or babruvahana kalaga vi panchavati and vii.
plaintiff respondent admittedly claimed copyright in respect of literary and artistic works in her favour in terms of clauses 11 and 12 of the said will dated 18 6 1994which read as under 11 since i left the house suhasa i have been living in a specially built house manasa of smt.
and she has cared and looked after me also during my illness which at times had been quite serious enfeebling me for long period.
whatever she may earn thereby shall be her exclusive income and property.
no one else shall have any right or claims for the same 12 from time to time i have distributed among my children all gold and silver jewels and ornaments and other valuables which were gifted to me by my friends and admirers.
malini mallya alone.
plaintiff respondent inter alia prayed for passing a judgment and decree against the defendants appellants granting the following reliefs 1 a declaration that the plaintiff is the exclusive copyright holder in respect of yaksharanga ballets namely bhishma vijaya kanakangi nala damayanthi panchavati gaya charitha chitrangadha abhimanyu vadha and for consequential permanent injunction restraining the defendants their agents employees etc from staging or performing any of the above said 7 ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof.
4 directing the defendants to pay future interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a till payment of the entire amount.
by reason of a judgment and decree dated 14 11 2003the district judge udupi decreed the said suit declaring the plaintiff respondent as a person having the exclusive copyright in respect of seven prasangas and that she had acquired the same by reason of a will as a residuary legatee and the defendants appellants or their employees or agents were restrained from performing the said seven ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by dr karanth.
appellants are thus before us.
the form of injunction granted in favour of the plaintiff respondent is not in terms of the provisions of the copyright act1957 as the appellant as an institution or otherwise is entitled to use the same in terms of clauses ai and l of sub section 1 of section 52 thereof.
mr g v chandrashekhar learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand would support the impugned judgment.
the word author is defined in section 2d to meani in relation to a literary or dramatic work the author of the work ii in relation to a musical work the composer iii in relation to an artistic work other than a photograph the artist iv in relation to a photograph the person taking the photograph v in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording the producer and vi in relation to any literary dramatic musical or artistic work which is computer generated the person who causes the work to be created.
in the case of a literary dramatic musical or artistic work other than a photographwhich is published anonymously or pseudonymously copyright shall subsist until sixty years from the beginning of the calendar year next following the year in which the work is first published.
provided that where the identity of the author is disclosed before the expiry of the said period copyright shall subsist until sixty years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
b where the identity of more authors than one is disclosed as references to the author who dies last from amongst such authors.
in sub section 1references to the author shall in the case of a pseudonymous work of joint authorship be construed.
a where the names of one or more but not all of the authors arc pseudonymous and his or their identity is not disclosed as references to the author whose name is not a pseudonym or if the names of two or more of the authors are not pseudonyms as references to such of those authors who dies last b where the names of one or more but not all of the authors arc pseudonyms and the identity of one or more of them is disclosed as references to the author who dies last from amongst the authors whose names are not pseudonyms and the authors whose names are pseudonyms and are disclosed and c where the names of all the authors arc pseudonyms and the identity of one of them is disclosed as references to the author whose identity is disclosed or if the identity of two or more of such authors is disclosed as references to such of those authors who dies last.
the following acts shall not constitute an infringement of copyright namely a a fair dealing with a literary dramatic musical or artistic work not being a computer programme for the purpose of i.
has the plaintiff became entitled to the said right under the registered will dated 18 06 1994.
does the plaintiff prove that her right under the said will was infringed by the defendants.
we may notice at this stage that the form of injunction granted both by the learned trial judge as also by the high court in favour of the plaintiff respondent.
costumes choreography and direction by dr karanth the appellants can do so only in accordance with the provisions of the copyrights act1957 in view of copyright in seven prasangas vesting with the plaintiff.
section 52 of the act provides for certain acts which would not constitute an infringement of copyright.
yet again if such performance is conducted before a non paying audience by the appellant which is an institution if it comes within the purview of amateur club or society the same would not constitute any violation of the said order of injunction.
appeal dismissed.
