these appeals have been preferred from the judgment and order of the high court dated 25 11 2009 in writ petitions civil no 464572009.
the appellants challenge the acquisition of their agricultural lands by the state of uttar pradesh for the construction of the district jail of shahjahanpur.
the appellants themselves are bhumidar with transferable rights and are residents of village murchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur uttar pradesh.
the state of uttar pradesh vide its office memorandum dated 25 10 2004 constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the honourable minister of revenue to suggest its recommendations for transfer of prisons situated in the congested areas of various districts.
after conducting its second and final meeting on 10th.
january2005the said committee recommended to the state government the shifting of the district jails from congested areas to outside the city limits within the district.
as per the schedule this shifting was to be done in two phases 1 st phase 1 district jail shahjahanpur 2 district jail azamgarh 3 district jail jaunpur and 4 district jail moradabad 2 nd phase 1 district jail badaun 2 district jail varanasi 3 district jail barielly and 4 district jail muzaffarnagar.
the existing district jail of shahjahanpur constructed in 1870was one of the oldest and required shifting to new premises.
the government case is that the district jail is located in a densely populated area of the city and is overcrowded housing as many as 1869 prisoners while having a capacity of only 511.
thereafter the state government constituted a committee under the chairmanship of chief secretary government of u p vide office memorandum dated 12 9 2007 to evaluate and consider the shifting of prisons identified to be shifted in the first phase.
prisons in the districts of lucknow moradabad were added to the list.
this committee was also to evaluate and recommend the means for modernisation of existing old prisons.
in its meeting dated 10 10 2007 the committee recommended that a detailed project report dpr be prepared by the rajkiya nirman nigam and that acquisition of lands for shifting of the prisons be done on a priority basis.
these recommendations were accepted by the state government vide the approval of the cabinet dated 7 12 2007 following this decision the director general of prisons administration and reformsuttar pradesh vide letter dated 04 06 2008requested the district magistrate shahjahanpur to send all the relevant records to the state government for publication of notification u ss 41 and 17 of the land acquisition act1894 hereinafter the act the land suggested for such acquisition by the divisional land utility committee was.
one admeasuring 25 89 hectares 63 93 acres in village morchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur.
thereafter the district magistrate shahjahanpur forwarded the proposal to the commissioner and director directorate of land acquisition revenue board uttar pradeshfor the issuance of notifications u ss 41 and 17 of the act which in turn approved of it and further forwarded the recommendation to the state government vide letter dated 2 07 2008.
thus the state government issued notifications u ss 41 and 17 on 21 08 2008.
the state government explained that this was done in view of the pressing urgency in the matter of construction of the jails.
before this court the appellants broadly raised the following arguments 1 whether or not the state government was justified in acquiring the said pieces of fertile agricultural land when there were alternative sites of unfertile banjar land available.
2 whether or not the state government was justified in dispensing with the inquiry which is mandated to be conducted under section 5a of the act especially when one year elapsed between the notifications u s 4 and the one u s 6 they further stated that the high court had erred insofar as it upheld the factum of urgency in the absence of a categorical finding an enquiry under section 5a would have been detrimental to public interest.
it was urged that it was clear from the counter of the respondent that the contemplation of a new prison was under consideration of the state government for several years.
committee was formed matter was discussed at a leisurely pace at various levels and there is no material fact to justify the abridgement of the appellants right of raising an objection to acquisition and of a hearing under section 5a of the act.
admittedly the land acquisition act a pre constitutional legislation of colonial vintage is a drastic law being expropriatory in nature as it confers on the state a power which affects person s property right.
even though right to property is no longer fundamental and was never a natural right and is acquired on a concession by the state it has to be accepted that without right to some property other rights become illusory.
this court is considering these questions especially in the context of some recent trends in land acquisition.
this court is of the opinion that the concept of public purpose in land acquisition has to be viewed from an angle which is consistent with the concept of a welfare state.
any attempt by the state to acquire land by promoting a public purpose to benefit a particular group of people or to serve any particular interest at the cost of the interest of a large section of people especially of the common people defeats the very concept of public purpose.
by judicial interpretation the contents of these part iii rights are constantly expanded.
the open ended nature of our constitution needs a harmonious reconciliation between various competing principles and the overhanging shadows of socio economic reality in this country.
the courts must examine these questions very carefully when little indians lose their small property in the name of mindless acquisition at the instance of the state.
this is part of the dynamics of statutory interpretation in the developing countries so that courts are not converted into rescue shelters for those who seek to defeat agrarian justice by cute transactions of many manifestations now so familiar in the country and illustrated by the several cases under appeal.
the same principle has been reiterated subsequently by a three judge bench of this court in state of maharashtra and anr vs b e billimoria and ors 2003 7 scc 336 2003 indlaw sc 618 in the context of ceiling law.
ltd and ors 2007.
8 scc 705 2007 indlaw sc 554wherein this court construed the status of a person s right to property after deletion of art 191f from part iii by referring to various international covenants namely the declaration of human and civil rights this court held that even though right to property has ceased to be a fundamental right but it would however be given an express recognition as a legal right and also as a human right.
in order to remedy this shortcoming in the act of 1894an amendment by way of incorporation of section 5a was introduced on 11th july1923 the statement of objects and reasons for the said amendment is as follows the land acquisition act i of 1894 does not provide that persons having an interest in land which it is proposed to acquire shall have the right of objecting to such acquisition nor is government bound to enquire into and consider any objections that may reach them.
the importance and scheme of section 5a was construed by this court in several cases.
the same view has been reiterated by another three judge bench decision of this court in munshi singh and ors.
in our opinion therefore the contention of learned counsel for the respondent authorities is not well founded and can not be upheld that once a case is covered by sub ss 1 or 2 of s 17 of the act sub s 4 of s 17 would necessarily apply and there is no question of holding inquiry or hearing objections under section 5 a of the act.
from the various facts disclosed in the said affidavit it appears that the matter was initiated by the government s letter dated 4th of june2008 for issuance of s 41 and s 17 notifications.
a meeting for selection of the suitable site for construction was held on 27th june2008and the proposal for such acquisition and construction was sent to the director land acquisition on 2nd of july2008 this was in turn forwarded to the state government by the director on 22nd of july2008 after due consideration of the forwarded proposal and documents the state government issued the s 4 notification along with s 17 notification on 21st of august2008 these notifications were published in local newspapers on 24th of september2008.
thereafter over a period of 9 months the state government deposited 10 of compensation payable to the landowners along with 10 of acquisition expenses and 70 of cost of acquisition was deposited and the proposal for issuance of s 6 declaration was sent to the director land acquisition on 19th of june2009 the director in turn forwarded all these to the state government on 17th july2009and the state government finally issued the s 6 declaration on 10th of august2009 this declaration was published in the local dailies on 17th of august2009.
this slow pace at which the government machinery had functioned in processing the acquisition clearly evinces that there was no urgency for acquiring the land so as to warrant invoking s 17 4 of the act.
in paragraph 15 of the writ petition it has been clearly stated that there was a time gap of more than 11 months between s 4 and s 6 notifications which demonstrates that there was no urgency in the state action which could deny the petitioners their right under section 5a in the counter which was filed in this case by the state before the high court it was not disputed that the time gap between s 4 notification read with section 17and s 6 notification was about 11 months.
but such acquisition can be made only by strictly following the mandate of the said act.
for the reasons aforesaid we hold that the state government was not justified in the facts of this case to invoke the emergency provision of s 174 of the act.
the possession of the appellants in respect of their land can not be interfered with except in accordance with law.
the appeals are allowed.
appeals allowed.
