in these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine engineering pharmacy nursing etc in educational institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this court in j p unni krishnan v state of a p 1993.
1 scc 645 1993 indlaw sc 1056.
i as well as the applicability of the rules and orders made by several state governments on the basis of the said decision.
by order dated october 71993 passed by the constitution bench three questions were referred for consideration by a larger bench.
in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted.
having regard to the importance of the questions involved we consider it appropriate to issue notice to the attorney general of india as well as the advocates general for the states.
since the process of selection of candidates for admission for the next academic session is to commence soon it is necessary to pass an interim order governing admission to the professional courses in minority educational institutions for the next academic session.
for admission in the last academic session 1993 94an interim order in the following terms was made by a bench comprising honourable the chief justice and one of us justice b p jeevan reddy on may 141993 in writ petition nos 350 and 355 of 1993.
issue rule.
there will be an interim order in the following terms i fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test.
however the selection shall be made strictly on the basis of merit among the candidates seeking admission to the institutions.
candidates so selected on the basis of merit amongst the minorities shall however abide by such condition in the matter of payment of tuition and other fee as may be permitted by the state government.
112 1993 indlaw sc 575 applicable only to those institutions which are found to be meis on verification by the government and not to those who are not found to be meis on such verification.
in other words out of the 50 seats to be filled up by government half will be payment seats and half will be free seats.
any such irregularity if proved may entail serious consequences.
in the above two writ petitions to admit students to their colleges on the basis of entrance test conducted by them and on the same basis on which admissions were made by them in the said colleges in the previous academic year.
after completing the admissions the petitioners shall furnish full particulars of the students admitted the categories if any whereunder they were admitted and all other particulars relating to their admission.
in case of irregularity any of the said authorities shall be entitled to call upon the petitioner to rectify the said irregularity.
dealing with writ petition no 598 of 1993the court after noticing that an agreement was entered into between the institution and the government of kerala according to which while 85 of the seats were to be filled by the government and the remaining 15 of the seats were left for the management to fill up in its discretion observed that since the basic principle in unni krishnan as well as the order dated august 181993 is that merit shall be the guiding principle in the matter of admission a plea for discretionary quota could not be countenanced and it was directed that the said writ petition shall also be governed by the order dated may 141993as modified by addition.
by order dated october 719933 the constitution bench having regard to the fact that the year 1993 being a year of transition and adjustment and also in view of the orders of the government of india permitting admission of foreign students to the extent of as much as 50 of the seats as well as the time that had already elapsed permitted the private professional colleges to admit non resident indians and foreign students up to a maximum extent of 15 of the intake capacity of that year.
i e 1993with the direction that the basis of the said selection would be as indicated in order dated may 1419934 on the basis of merit leaving to the management of the college t m a pai foundation v state of karnataka1993.
4scc276 2002.
indlaw sc 2264 unnikrishnan j p v.
in the aforesaid order dated october 719933with reference to the minority educational institutions in the state of kerala such as those covered by writ petition no 598 of 1993 it has been observed the system obtaining in kerala appears to be altogether different which was unfortunately not brought to our notice on august 181993 there are only two private engineering colleges in the state said to be minority educational institutions.
we have heard learned counsel for the parties and we are of the view that except for the minority educational institutions in kerala which are governed by the terms of the agreements with the government of kerala the directions given by this court with regard to admissions for the academic session 1993 can continue and govern admissions for the next academic session commencing in 1994 as regards the institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by the terms of agreements with the government of kerala the admissions to such institutions would be made in accordance with those agreements.
it is therefore directed that the admission for the academic session commencing in 1994 to the professional courses in the institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions shall be made on the following basis i in the institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 of 1993 and 482 of 1993 admission shall be made as per the directions given in the order dated august 1819932for the academic session commencing in 1993.
in the institutions referred to in writ petition no 598 of 1993 and similar minority educational institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by an agreement with the government of kerala the admissions shall be made in accordance with the terms of those agreements.
in respect of the seats which are left for management to fill in its discretion merit shall be the guiding principle.
but it would be open for the management of the institution to adjudge the merit of the candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
conservators forests u p rendered on november 61990 it would appear that at present there are 215 direct recruits and 100 promotee asstt.
conservators forest working in the forest department.
in k c joshi case it was concluded that the promotees were appointed on ad hoc basis as a stop gap arrangement in 7ubstantive posts.
conservators forest and the seniority of direct recruits shall accordingly be fixed.
conservators forest if not already made in accordance with rule 5b read with appendix b and rule 6.
conservators forest shall be counted from the respective dates of appointment to the substantive posts in their quota under rule 6 of the rules.
all the employees are entitled to all consequential benefits.
231991this court observed thus we are told by the counsel for the state of u p that for the purpose of working out the seniority draft list has been prepared and was in circulation inviting objections.
conservator forest for the years 1973 74 to 1979 80 had taken place by a regularly constituted selection committee which selected 140 candidates for appointment.
conservators forest as they were initially appointed to the substantive vacancies.
conservators forest.
conservators forest were available and their quota as per the existing rules was 25 per cent.
as per the ratio the promotees are entitled to 33 13per cent quota.
as on march 11198532 more posts were created and the total posts available were 218 on.
december 1198640 more posts were created.
258 on march 11985the quota was increased by 50 per cent.
as in the year 199072 more posts were created and the total posts are now 330 therefore they are entitled to 50 per cent of the quota in the tentative list.
but that was not done.
from the averments it would appear that 100 promotee asstt.
conservators forest are awaiting appointment to substantive vacancies.
if the temporary posts are likely to continue for long normally as per the law laid down by this court they be treated for the purpose of counting seniority as permanent posts unless they are likely to be abolished.
it is a policy matter.
after this exercise is exhausted appointments should be made posts are to be filled up to substantive vacancies.
as and when the temporary posts are converted either into permanent posts or the vacancies arise due to superannuation of the senior officers they should be fixed in the respective vacancies and fitment made.
after exhausting the exercise the remaining candidates awaiting appointment would continue to be temporary until they get due placement or fixation of their seniority.
