there was an inspection by a team of professors of the university and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establish ing an engineering college.
the aicte sent a communication on 30 4 1995 stating that on the basis of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee and central task force as per the provisions of the aicte regulation dated 30 1 1994the aicte was granting conditional approval for establishing an engineering and technical college.
in the event of contravention of the conditions guidelines norms and regula tions of the aicte the aicte could withdraw the approval at any time.
meanwhile the mahatama gandhi university by their letter dated 31 5 1995 forwarded to the government a list of colleges and courses for affiliation during the academic year 1995 96 the appellant s college was shown as one of the colleges among the affiliated colleges for the said period.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
the learned single judge of the high court by his judgment dated 14 1 1997 allowed the writ petition quashed the above said order of the government dated 16 8 1996 and directed the mahatama gandhi university to consider the appellant s application for permanent affiliation without reference to the above letter of the government and pass appropriate order within 8 weeks from the date of the receipt of a copy of the judgment.
against the said judgment of the learned single judge the commis sioner and secretary of the government higher education department filed writ appeal no 1024 of 1997 the division bench of the high court allowed the appeal and set aside the order of the government and dismissed the writ petition.
it is against the abovesaid judgment of the division bench that this appeal has been preferred.
learned senior counsel for the appellant.
in so far as institutions imparting technical education were concerned the university or the state government had no independent role to play except to the extent provided in the above said enactment in the present case the aicte had made inspections and was satisfied that the necessary infrastructure was available and that the appellant would be able to conform to the required standards of the education.
according to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the state government for any further sanction to establish the college.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
also there were four engineering colleges at kannur trichur kottayam and thiruvananthapuram districts and three private aided engineering colleges at palakkad ernakulam kothamangalam and kollam districts.
even though the appellant trust was not seeking aid from the government and even assuming that it was financially self sufficient it would not be in the interests of the students employment to permit new engineering colleges to be established.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
2 whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the aicte permission.
point 1.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
before we refer to the abovesaid judgment it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the aicte act and the relevant regulations.
for the purposes of performing its functions under the act the council may a undertake survey in various fields of technical education collect data on all related matters and make forecast of the needed growth and development in technical education b coordinate the development of technical education in the country at all levels c allocate and disburse out of the fund of the council such grants on such terms and conditions as it may think fit to i technical institutions and ii universities imparting technical education in coordination with the commission d promote innovations research and development in established and new technologies generation adoption and adaptation of new technologies to meet developmental requirements and for overall improve ment of educational processes e formulate schemes for promoting technical education for women handicapped and weaker sections of the society f promote an effective link between technical education system and other relevant systems including research and development organisations industry and the community g evolve suitable performance appraisal systems for technical institutions and universities imparting technical education incorpo rating norms and mechanisms for enforcing accountability h formulate schemes for the initial and in service training of teachers and identify institutions or centres and set up new centres for offering staff development programmes including continuing education of teachers i lay down norms and standards for courses curricula physical and instructional facilities staff pattern staff qualifications quality instructions assessment and examinations j fix norms and guidelines for charging tuition and other fees.
cl s to declare technical institutions as fit to receive grants cl t to advice for declaring institutions to be deemed as universities cl u to set up a national board of accreditation.
regulation 2 states that these regulations will be applicable to proposals relating to a grant of approval of the council for establishment of new technical institutions including universities or university depart ments and deemed universities and for technical institutions function ing on the date of commencement of these regulations at degree and diploma levels b grant of approval of the council for introduction of any course or programme in the technical institutions and technical departments or universities or deemed universities c grant of approval of the council for existing intake capacity of seats and for increase in the annual intake capacity of seats in courses and programmes.
d no approved intake capacity of seats shall be increased or varied except with the approval of the council.
i the state government concerned ii the affiliating university state board of technical education iii bureaus mpcd iv bureau bos v bureau ra vi the regional office.
the tamil nadu case.
as stated earlier the above provisions of the aicte act came up for consideration in state of tamil nadu v adhiyaman educational research institute1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
in the above matter the state of tamil nadu granted permission on 17 4 84 to all private managements to start private engineering colleges without financial commitment to government but subject to conditions.
at that time in 1984the aicte act was not on the statute book.
88 later on these permissions were withdrawn by the state after issuing show cause on 16 7 89 so did the university on 26 7 89 but by that date the aicte act1987 had come into force.
i of the constitution of india relating to coordination and determination of standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions.
after the constitutional amendment 42 amendment act1976 entry 25 of list iii in the concurrent list.
iii whether.
i in the above case this court referred to the various provisions of the aicte act and on the question of repugnancy held as follows.
hence on the subjects covered by the statute the state could not make a law under entry 25 of list iii after the forty second amendment.
if there was any such existing law immediately before the commencement of the constitution within the meaning of art 372 of the constitution as the madras university act 1923 on the enactment of the present central act the provisions of the said law if repugnant to the provisions of the central act would stand impliedly repealed to the extent of repugnancy.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
inspection of technical institution which are matters covered by the central act.
it is not the university act and the university but it is the central act and the council created under it which will have the jurisdiction.
all that was necessary was that under the regulations the aicte council had to consult them.
it reads as follows grant of affiliation 1.
after considering the report of the commission and the report of the local inquiry if any and after making such further inquiry as it may deem necessary the syndicate shall decide after ascer taining the view of the government also whether the affiliation be granted or refused either in whole or part.
in case affiliation is granted the fact shall be reported to the senate at its next meet ing.
as held in the tamil nadu case the central act of 1987 and in particular s 10k occupied the field relating the grant of approvals for establishing technical institutions and the provisions of the central act alone were to be complied with.
if indeed the university statute could be so inter preted such a provision requiring approval of the state government would be repugnant to the provisions of s 10k of the aicte act1987 and would again be void.
as pointed out in the tamil nadu case there were enough provisions in the central act for consultation by the council of the aicte with various agencies including the state governments and the universities concerned.
in case of difference of opinion as between the various consultees the aicte would have to go by the views of the central task force.
if the university statute required approvalit would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
factual position and pleadings in this case.
i to the order and the general conditions were enlisted in annexure ii the.
645 1993 indlaw sc 1168 the mahatma gandhi university had included this appellant in the list of colleges and courses which were granted affiliation during 1995 96 and the university had written to the state government on 31 5 95 that as per statute 97the views of the government were to be sent before granting affili ation.
it also observed that there was widespread student prospects against starting new colleges and it was necessary to be cautious in the matter of starting new engineering colleges.
as already stated in view of the judgment of this court in tamil nadu case it is obvious that there is no need to approach the state of kerala for its approval for starting the engineering colleges.
even on merits the reasons given by the state government in its counter are not tenable in law.
it is therefore not under standable how the director had given a contrary opinion to the state government.
in case there was difference between the state government university or the regional committee the central task force was to make a final recommen dation under regulation.
if the state government had any other valid objections its only remedy was to place its objections before the aicte council under the aicte act or before the committees e g state level committee etc.
in thirwnuruga kirupan and variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858which was a case relating to medical education and which also related to the effect of a central law upon a law made by the state under entry 25 list iii it was held that the essentiality certificate can not be withheld by the state government on any policy consideration because the policy in the matter of establishment of a new medical college now vests with the central government alone.
decision of university in not granting further or fined affiliation wrong on merits.
admittedly the university s inspection report was in favour of the appellant.
appeal allowed.
