in the opinion of the other learned judge the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction as recorded by the trial court though the case was not one of those rarest of rare cases as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
at about 7 a m on 19th march 1991 kishori lal pw4 informed bd pw2 the unfortunate father of s that dead body of a girl was lying near mohalla basera on the outskirts of village kotputli.
bd rushed to the place only to find that the dead body was of none else than his own daughter section blood was oozing out from her mouth and private parts.
a noose was also found around her neck.
at 7 25 a m on 19 3 1991 first information report was lodged by bd at police station kotputli.
it was found that the victim was brutally ravished and thereafter killed.
according to the medical opinion the probable cause of death of s was shock produced due to vaginal trauma and rupture of post fornix along with asphyxia due to ligature around the neck.
all injuries found on the person of the victim could be around 6 of 24 hours old prior to the time of post mortem examina tion.
he was a grown up male of 21 years and capable of performing sexual intercourse.
and in confirmation of the information led the police to a dry well wherefrom an underwear and baniyan wrapped in a newspaper dated 18 3 1991 were recovered.
according to report exbt.
human semen was detected on underwear.
the pieces of circumstantial evidence which have been found proved and held as forging an incriminating chain against the accused are as under i last seen together ii abnormal conduct of the accused iii recovery of underwear and baniyan which was found to be stained with semen and blood group b which is also the blood group of the deceased iv false plea of alibi and v accused absconding since the date of offence.
in dhananjoy chatterjee v state of west bengal 1994 2 scc 220 1994 indlaw sc 1743 wherein one of us dr a s anand j as his lordship then was spoke for the bench.
in dhananjoy chatterjee s case 1994 indlaw sc 1743 supra the decision of this court in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 was relied on.
in the later case it was also held that a false explanation or false plea taken by the accused can be used as an additional link in the chain of circumstantial evidence subject to satisfication of three essential conditions namely i various links in the chain of evidence led by the prosecution have been satisfactorily proved ii the said circumstance points to the guilt of the accused with reasonable definiteness and iii the circumstance is in proxim ity to the time and situation.
i last seen together on the point of last seen together there is solitary testimony of a child witness shalu pw7 aged about 4 years on 23 3 1992 the date of her examination in the court.
from the evi dence of shalu pw7 such an inference can not be drawn.
goma to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon has not been examined.
he gave an evasive answer saying that the fact that shalu was accompanying s must have come in the staement of the witnesses.
he was further asked to name the witness in whose statement shalu s reference was available but the investigation officer drew a blank and could not tell the name of the witness from whom any clue as to shalu was received by him.
abnormal conduct of accused kalu ram pw5 stated that two or three days after the date of dead body of s having been found.
he and santosh.
during cross examination kalu ram stated that the accused was his neighbour previously known to him.
harish chand sharma pw21 stated that between 19th and 25th march 1991 the accused subhash was called at the police station several times for making enquiries.
he did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
however the accused was not detained and was sent back.
any person even if innocent and not connected in any way with a gruesome crime which had recently occurred and was talk of the town if called by police and interrogated as a suspect would be scared and be apprehensive of the likelihood of his being implicated in the crime.
iii recovery of underwear stained with blood and semen strangely enough the underwear and baniyan though discovered and seized on an information given by the accused and on his pointing out apparently on a statement recorded under section 27 of the evidence act have not been produced and exhibited in the court.
there is not investigation directed towards finding out and no evidence worth its name collected and adduced in the court to show that the underwear and baniyan were of the accused.
blood sam ple of the accused was not collected and therefore not grouped.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
in diameter on the appellant s pant and of a dried stain of semen on his under pant were circumstances for too feeble to establish that the appellant raped or murdered the victim.
b group is not uncommon group of blood and no effort was made to exclude the possibility that the blood of the accused belonged to the same group.
as regards the dried stain of semen on the appellant s under pant the court observed that the accused was a grown up man of 30 years and no compelling inference could arise that the stain was caused during the course of the sexual assault committed by him on the victim girl.
false plea of alibi.
although the dead body of the victim was found on the outskirts of the village however there is no material available on record to fix the place and the likely time at which rape was committed on s and then she was murdered.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
denial by an accused of an assertion made by his employer that the accused was on leave of absence from duty on the date of offence does not by any stretch of reasoning or logic amount to pleading alibi.
grave injustice has been done to the accused by holding it as a fact that the accused was absconding after the date of the incident and then treating the so called absconding as a piece of incrimi nating circumstantial evidence against the accused.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
from village kotputli where the incident had taken place.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
at least this fact should have been mentioned in the memo of arrest even if the same was prepared at village kotputli.
hence it could not have been held that the accused was absconding.
conclusion.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit s case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
before parting with the case we would like to place on record an observation of ours touching an aspect of the case.
a vigilant investigating officer well versed with the techniques of the job is in a position to collect the threads of evidence finding out the path which leads to the culprit.
the appeals are allowed.
conviction of the accused appellant under sections 302 and 3762f of indian penal code is set aside.
he is acquitted of the charges framed against him.
he shall be set at liberty forthwith if not required to be detained in connection with any other offence.
appeals allowed.
