the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.
initially the writ petitions were filed before the high court but after constitution of the tamil nadu taxation special tribunal hereinafter referred to as the tribunal the writ petitions were transferred to the tribunal which held that on application of the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation the withdrawal of benefit was not sustainable in law.
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.
in any event before withdrawal of the benefits no opportunity of hearing was granted.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
as there was no inducement or assurance the question of any promissory estoppel did not arise.
the grant of subsidy is a concession and the government has got good reasons for modifying the scheme in public interest.
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.
but that principle does not create any cause of action which did not exist before so that where a promise is made which is not supported by any consideration the promise can not bring an action on the basis of that promise.
all e r 657 1955 1 w l r 761.
that principle was adopted by this court in union of india v indo afghan agencies ltd air 1968.
doctrine of promissory estoppel has been envolved by the courts on the principles of equity to avoid injustice.
promissory estoppel is defined in black s law distionary as an estoppel which arises when there is a promise which promissor should reasonable expect to induce action or forbearance of a definite and substantial character on the part of promisee and which does include such action or forbearance and such promise is binding if injustice can be avoided only by enforcement of promise.
so far as this court is concerned it invoked the doctrine in indo afghan agencies s case 1967 indlaw sc 411 supra in which is was inter alia laid down that even though the case would not fall within the terms of section 115 of the indian evidence act 1872 in short the evidence act which enacts the rule of estoppel it would still be open to a party who had acted on a representation made by the government to claim that the government should be bound to carry out the promise made by it even though the promise was not recorded in the form of a formal contract as required by article 299 of the constitution.
dixon j an australian jurists in grundt v great boulder gold mines prorietary ltd 1939 59 clr 641 aust laid down as under it is often said simply that the party asserting the estoppel must have been induced to act to his detriment.
although substantially such a statement is correct and leads to no misunderstanding it does not bring out clearly the basal purpose of the doctrine.
1995 1 scc 274 1994 indlaw sc 2183.
a person may have a legitimate expectation of being treated in a certain way by an administrative authority even though he has no legal right in private law to receive such treatment.
it is generally agreed that legitimate expectation gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation to be confined mostly to right to a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken.
in other words where a person s legitimate expectation in not fulfilled by taking a particular decision then decision maker should justify the denial of such expectation by showing some overriding public interest.
actions are amenable in the panorama of judicial review only to the extent that the state must act validity for discernible reasons not whimsically for any ulterior purpose.
a question whether the impugned action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
every state action must be informed by reason and it follows that an act uninformed by reason is per se arbitrary.
but there has to be a word of caution.
as professor wade points out in administrative law by h w r wade 6th edition there is ample room within the legal boundaries for radical differences of opinion in which neither side is unreasonable.
in hindustan development corporation s case1993 indlaw sc 1085 supra it was observed that decision taken by the authority must be found to be arbitrary unreasonable and not taken in public interest where the doctrine of legitimate expectation can be applied.
as was observed in punjab communications ltd v union of india of others air 1999 sc 1801 1999 indlaw sc 1548 the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on wednesbury reasonableness.
a claim based on merely legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right.
how significant is the statement that today is tomorrows yesterday.
for legal purposes expectation is not same as anticipation.
as observed in attorney general for new south wale v quinn 1990 64 australian ljr 327 to strike the exercise of administrative power solely on the ground of avoiding the disappointment of the legitimate expectations of an individual would be to set the courts adrift on a featureless sea of pragmatism.
if a denial of legitimate expectation in a given case amounts to denial of right guaranteed or is arbitrary discriminatory unfair or biased gross abuse of power of violation of principles of natural justice the same can be questioned on the well known grounds attracting article 14 but a claim based on mere legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right to invoke these principles.
it depends very much on the facts and the recognised general principles of administrative law applicable to such facts and the concept of legitimate expectation which is the latest recruit to a long list of concepts fashioned by the courts for the review of administrative action must be restricted to the general legal limitations applicable and binding the manner of the future exercise of administrative power in a particular case.
as cautioned in attorney general for new south wale s case the courts should restrain themselves and respect such claims duly to the legal limitations.
as noted above the ultimate test is whether on the touchstone of reasonableness the policy decision comes out unscathed.
in determining whether there is any unfairness involved the nature of the right alleged to have taken infringed the underlying purpose of the restriction imposed the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby the disproportion of the imposition the prevailing condition at the relevant time enter into judicial verdict the reasonableness of the legitimate expectation has to be determined with respect to the circumstances relating to the trade or business in question.
canalisation of a particular business in favour of even a specified individual is reasonable where the interests of the country are concerned or where the business affects the economy of the country.
article 166 of the constitution deals with the conduct of government business.
conduct of business of the government of a state 1 all executive action of the government of a state shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the governor.
2 orders and other instruments made and executed in the name of the governor shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in rules to be made by the governor and the validity of an order or instrument which is so authenticated shall not be called in question on the ground that it is not an order or instrument made or executed by the governor.
clause 1 requires that all executive action of the state government shall have to be taken in the name of the governor.
further is no particular formula of words required for compliance with article 1661.
a constitution bench in r chitralekha etc.
air 1964.
1999 1 scc 573 1997 indlaw sc 1219 it was further held that the government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.
at this juncture we would like to take note to certain factual positions highlighted by the appellants which are practically undisputed by the respondents.
contrary to what the high court has stated it appears from record that counter affidavits were filed.
as noted above no specific grounds or reasons were indicated to justify the withdrawal in the affidavits filed before the tribunal or the high court as the case may be.
as the correctness of factual basis justifying withdrawal is in issue fair play certainly warranted grant of opportunity to the appellants to present its side of the picture.
further a definite plea was taken that there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal of benefit by an executive order.
another point which was specifically raised before the high court but has not been dealt by it is the legality of the action in directing retrospective withdrawal of the benefit by a letter of the government.
appeals disposed of.
