accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
it is the case of the prosecution that for non payment of dowry the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
subsequently lw 3 pathan basheerunnisa sent her grandson pathan inayatullah khan lw 4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
and further a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence u s 304 b ipc both the sentences shall run concurrently.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
accused were charged with offences under sections 498a and 304b of the ipc the fir in the present case was lodged by lw 1who is the father of the deceased.
according to this witness on 23rd january2002the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused pathan hussain basha and he had accepted to give rs 25000 in marriage.
he had called his son in law accused no 1to his house as per custom at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
subsequently the motherin law of the deceased again demanded the balance dowry amount of rs 10000 which he could not pay.
all three accused used to beat her for the remaining amount of dowry.
according to this witness also in the beginning they were happy however after some time she used to hear some quarrel between the deceased and the accused persons.
after bringing the soaps she went to the house of the accused persons and found that the accused was absent and the deceased was hanging on one side of the room.
after seeing this she raised cries and people came to the scene.
lw 7 stated on oath that he was present at the time of giving of dowry to the accused by the family of the deceased.
according to him the accused persons used to harass the deceased primarily for non payment of the amount of dowry as a result of which she was forced to commit suicide.
dr m madhusudana reddy lw 13 who was the associate professor in forensic medicine at guntur medical college performed the post mortem over the body of the deceased.
february2003 the witnesses including lw 1 have stated that for the first few months they were happy but thereafter there were quarrels between the accused and the deceased.
accused pathan hussain basha when he had gone to the parental house of the deceased demanded different items like fan ring and rs 1000 in cash and the balance of the agreed dowry amount.
at this stage it will be appropriate for us to examine as to what are the ingredients of an offence punishable under section 304b of the ipc.
1 the death of a woman should be caused by burns or fatal injury or otherwise than under normal circumstances 2 such death should have occurred within seven years of her marriage 3 she must have been subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband and 4 such cruelty or harassment should be for or in connection with demand for dowry.
11 alongside insertion of section 304 b in ipc the legislature also introduced section 113 b of the evidence act which lays down when the question as to whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for or in connection with any demand for dowry the court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
12 explanation appended to section.
113 b lays down that for the purpose of this sectiondowry death shall have the same meaning as in section 304 b of indian penal code.
13 if.
section 304 b ipc is read together with section 113 b of the evidence act a comprehensive picture emerges that if a married woman dies in unnatural circumstances at her matrimonial home within 7 years from her marriage and there are allegations of cruelty or harassment upon such married woman for or in connection with demand of dowry by the husband or relatives of the husband the case would squarely come under dowry death and there shall be a presumption against the husband and the relatives.
besides examining the ingredients of the provision it would also be necessary for us to examine the meaning and connotation of the expressions dowry deathsoon before her death and in connection with any demand for dowry as appearing in the said section.
amongst others lapse of time between the date of marriage and the date of death is also a relevant consideration for the court while examining whether the essential ingredients of the provision are satisfied or not in a given case.
secondly that soon before her death she had been subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or any of the relatives of the husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry then such a death shall be called dowry death and the husband or the relative as the case may be will be deemed to have caused such a death.
the explanation to this section requires that the expression dowry shall have the same meaning as in s 2 of the act.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
explanation ii  the expression valuable security has the same meaning as in s 30 of the penal code 45 of 1860.
from the above definition it is clear thatdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly by one party to another by parents of either party to each other or any other person at before or at any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr under the muslim personal law.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
at this stage it will be appropriate to refer to certain examples showing what has and has not been treated by the courts as dowry.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
as already noticed we need not deliberate on this aspect as the accused before us has neither been charged nor punished for that offence.
but even the rule of strict construction requires that the provisions have to be read in conjunction with other relevant provisions and scheme of the act.
16 scc 155 2008 indlaw sc 1962 held that the legislative object in providing such a radius of time by employing the words soon before her death is to emphasise the idea that her death should in all probabilities has been the aftermath of such cruelty or harassment.
for want of any specific period the concept of reasonable period would be applicable.
dowry is something which existed in our country for a considerable time and the legislature in its wisdom considered it appropriate to enact the law relating to dowry prohibition so as to ensure that any party to the marriage is not harassed or treated with cruelty for satisfaction of demands in consideration and for subsistence of the marriage.
applying these principles to the facts of the present case it is clear that the ingredients of section 304b read with section 498a ipc are completely satisfied in the present case.
by a deeming fiction in law the onus shifts on to the accused to prove as to how the deceased died.
denial can not be treated to be the discharge of onus.
accused pathan hussain basha and pathan nazeer abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
consequently we award ten years rigorous imprisonment to the appellants.
appeals partly allowed.
