Appeal from the judgment and decree dated April 22, of 1953, of the Patna High Court in Appeal from Original Decree No.
March 22.
This appeal by certificate granted is directed against the judgment of the High Court of Judicature at Patna dated April 23, 1953, confirming that of the Subordinate Judge, Dhanbad, dated November 30, 1946.
The plaintiffs and the defendant are adjoining colliery owners at Kujama.
The plaintiffs ' land lies immediately to the south of the defendants ' land.
On August 2, 1,894, Raja of Jharia granted mukarrari lease of the coal and coal mining rights in 300 bighas of land in village Kujama to Satya Karan Banerjee and Girish Chandra Samanta.
On June 15,1900, his son, Raja Durga Prasad Singh, granted coal and coal 494 mining rights in respect of 400 bighas out of 592 bighas to one Jugal Kishore Lal.
On June 10, 1901, Jugal Kishore Lal granted a lease of 96 bighas out of his 400 bighas to one D. M. Mathews.
The plaintiffs case was that as a result of a letter written by the Inspector of Mines on August 18, 1941, the plaintiffs made an inquiry and came to know that the defendants had encroached upon their coal mines on the northern side and removed coal from the encroached portion and had rendered the remaining coal of the encroached portion unworkable.
On those allegations, they asked for the following reliefs: (a)That the intermediate boundary line between the plaintiffs ' coal land and the defendants ' coal land be ascertained and fixed.
(b)That the area encroached upon by the defendants be ascertained and the defendants be directed to vacate the same,.
(c)That a permanent injunction be issued against the defendants restraining them from encroaching upon the plaintiffs ' coal land and cutting and removing coal therefrom.
(d)That an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiffs ' coal land as also the quantity of the coal rendered unworkable be ascertained and a decree for the value thereof by way of damages be granted to the plaintiffs against the defendants.
The defendants denied that they had encroached upon the plaintiff , ' coal land and stated that the suit was barred by limitation.
The learned Subordinate Judge held that the defendant had encroached upon the plaintiff ' coal land, that the suit was not barred by limitations and that they would be entitled to the reliefs prayed for.
On appeal, the High Court of Patna accepted all the findings of the learned Subordinate Judge and dismissed the appeal.
The first question that arises for consideration is whether the defendants had encroached Upon the plaintiffs ' coal land.
The answer to this question depends upon the correct, delineation of the boundary line between the plaintiffs ' leasehold and the defendants ' leasehold.
It is common case that the southern boundary of the appellants ' leasehold is conterminous with the northern boundary of the respondents ' lease hold.
