Appeals, Nos.
Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated May 2, 1960 of the Kerala High Court in Income tax Referred case No.
These two appeals arise out of assessments of the appellant to income tax for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50.
The question in these appeals is whether on the facts to be presently stated, the appellant was entitled to relief under section 25(4) of the Income tax Act, 1922.
The appellant claimed relief under section 25(4) contending that it had transferred its business to a limited company with effect either from November 13.
The claim was rejected by the Income tax Officer and by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and also by the Income tax Appellate Tribunal on appeal to it.
The appellant then moved the Tribunal to refer a, certain question to the High Court at Madras under section 66(1) of the Act but that application was rejected.
It then moved the High Court under section 66 (2) of the Act and the High Court directed the Tribunal to refer the following question for determination by it: "Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the assessee is not entitled to relief under section 25 (4) of the Indian Income tax Act, and to what extent?"
The High Court held that the appellant was not entitled to any relief under section 25 (4).
The present appeals are from the judgment of the High Court.
(3) of that section will throw useful light on the matter 96 in question and so we set both these sub sections out below: section 25 (3) Where any business, profession or vocation on which tax was at any time charged under the provisions of the Indian Income tax Act, 1918, .
(4) Where the person who was at the commencement of the Indian Income tax (Amendment) Act, 1939 carrying on any business, profession or vocation on which tax was at any time charged under the provisions of the Indian Income tax Act, 1918, is succeeded in such capacity by another person, the change not being merely a change in the constitution of a partnership, no tax shall be payable by the first mentioned person in respect of the income, profits and gains of the period between the end of the previous year and the date of such succession Both these sub sections gave a further right to the assessee but with that right we are not concerned and shall, there fore, make no more reference to it.
(3) the discontinuance of the business gave rise to a relief from taxation in respect of its income provided however that there had not been a succession to the business as mentioned in sub sec.
(4) again must have taken place before the discontinuance for if the business is discontinued it ceases to exist and cannot be succeeded to.
We would like to remind here that a firm is a taxable unit under the Income tax Act and it is a person as that word is used in the Act.
(4) of section 25 is that the business must have been charged to tax under the Indian Income tax Act, 1918.
So the business must have been in existence sometime between 1918 and 1922.
By that Act tax was assessed on the income of the previous year and the result of the innovation was that the income of the year 1921 22 was assessed twice, once under the Act of 1918 and again under the Act of 1922 and it was because of this that relief was given by sub secs.
(3) and (4) of section 25.
The second condition of the applicability of section 25(4) is that business must have been carried on at the commencement of the Indian Income tax Act (Amendment) Act, 1939, that is, April 1, 1939, by the person claiming the relief.
The third condition is that the person carrying on the business on April 1, 1939 has to be succeeded by another person as the owner carrying on the business.
Obviously, the succession indicated must have been after April 1, 1939, as we have earlier stated, for a person carrying on a business on that date can only be succeeded in that business by another person on a date later than it.
The fourth condition is that the succession was not merely a change in the constitution of the firm.
This condition, of course, is applicable only where, as in the present case, the business was carried on by a firm.
The appellant, who is the assessee in these cases, is a firm.
It contends that it had been carrying on a business on April 1, 1939 from before and on that business tax had been charged under the Act of 1918 and that it was succeeded by a company as owner of the business as a result of a transfer by an instrument executed on February 7, 1948.
The appellant further contends that its constitution has changed 134 159 S.C. 7.
98 from time to time but the firm has never been dissolved so that it has been the same firm continuing and carrying on the same business from before 1918 till the transfer afore said.
It is on this basis that it claimed the benefit of section 25 (4) of the Act.
It appears that a firm bearing the same name as that of the appellant, that is, Sait (or Shah) Nagjee Purshotham and Company was started in 1902 and was reconstituted by an agreement of partnership dated December 6, 1918.
On the last mentioned date it carried on business in piece goods, yarn, and other articles at Calicut with branches in Madras and Bombay.
The partnership agreement of December 6, 1918 was between the following six persons, Purushotham, Nagjee, Narayanjee, Krishnajee, Maneklal and Bhagwanjee.
The agreement provided that the withdrawal of a partner for whatever reason, would not dissolve the partnership as between the remaining partners.
On January 2, 1934, the remaining four partners executed an instrument varying some of the terms of the agreement of December 6, 1918.
The instrument, however, provided that subject to the variations made the agreement of December 6, 1918 was to remain effective.
Thereafter on April 27, 1934 Purusbotham died and the firm was then left with three partners, namely, Nagjee, Narayanjee and Maneklal.
Then we get two instruments both dated May 30, 1939, each described as an agreement of partnership.
One instrument, which is marked as annexure CI, was between Nagjee, Narayanjee, Maneklal and Hemchand.
The other instrument, which is marked as annexure C II was between 99 Nagjee, Narayanjee and Maneklal.
Its case is that under annexure C I an outsider Hemchand was admitted as partner in some of the businesses of the existing partner ship, namely, the umbrella and soap businesses and by the other instrument, annexure C 11, the other existing businesses of that partnership, e.g., in yarn, piece goods, money lending etc., were, continued by the subsisting partners mentioned above.
The contention of the respondent, on the other hand, is that these two instruments show that the business of the existing firm had been split up into two and transferred to two different owners, namely, two newly constituted firms with different partners, some of whom were no doubt common, and this amounted to a discontinuance of the business of the old firm.
It was contended that after such discontinuance it could not be said that the same business on which tax had been charged under the Act of 1918 was being carried on on April 1, 1939 and no question, therefore, of any subsequent succession to that business to make sub sec.
We next have an instrument of October 30, 1943, also "Styled an agreement of partnership, to which Narayanjee, Maneklal, Jayanand, Leeladhar and Prabhulal were parties.
It refers to the two "agreements of partnership of May 30, 1939" and certain retirements of partners and admission of new partners and provides that the parties to the instrument had agreed to carry on "as one single partnership" the busi nesses carried on previously by the two partnerships referred to in the instruments of May 30, 1939.
