Appeal by special leave from the Award dated September 20, 1963 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in Reference CG IT 25 of 1962. section V. Gupte, Solicitor General, M. Rajagopalan and K. R. Choudhuri, for the appellants.
C. B. Agarwala, J.
This is an appeal by special leave against an award dated September 20, 1963 made by the Presiding Officer of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay in a reference made by the Government of India under section 10(2) of the .
The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
and the matter in dispute was stated to be : "Whether the existing system of work of the shore crew of the Prince 's and Victoria Docks under which each shift consists of 8 hours ' normal duty, 2 hours ' variable recess and 12 hours ' overtime needs any modification?
Reference in this judgment will be made to the Prince 's and Victoria Docks, the Alexandra Docks, Butcher Island and the Flotilla Crew.
When the two shift system began, each shift of 12 hours was broken up into 8 hours ' duty, 2 hours ' variable recess and 2 hours ' overtime.
In 1956 the workmen, who were then represented by the Port Trust General Workers ' Union, made a demand for a fixed recess of two hours.
The Trustees agreed to accept the hours of rest at fixed hours in the Alexandra Docks but at the Prince 's and Victoria Docks they kept it variable agreeing to fix it as near the middle of the duty hours as possible.
Under this arrangement the shore crew working at the Prince 's and Victoria Docks were informed each day what the period of rest would be on the following day.
In explanation of this difference it may be pointed out that the Alexandra Docks work on a system of lock gates which enables the depth of water at the docks to be artificially regulated but the Prince 's and Victoria Docks, being tidal, work only at high tide.
It was thus possible to fix rest hours at the Alexandra Docks for half the crew different from the rest hours of the other half so that a part of the crew was always available on hand.
The workmen at the Alexandra Docks seemed to have accepted a variable recess of two hours but the Port Trust gave a notice under section 9A of the on June 25, 1960 announcing the introduction of variable recess although in the months other than the monsoon months recess was actually at fixed hours.
The workmen opposed the change from fixed to variable recess.
Meanwhile studies were being made and it was found that the work hours at the different Docks were not equal: they were heavier at the Alexandra Docks than at the other docks.
The Trustees, therefore, resolved that the shore crew at the Alexandra Docks should work for 8 hours and that there should be a variable recess of one hour and overtime of three hours should be paid.
Thus the 12 hours ' shift at the Alexandra Docks was 8 hours ' of duty, 3 hours ' overtime and one hour variable recess.
At these docks 8 hours ' duty, 2 hours ' rest at variable times and 2 hours ' overtime were prescribed.
