Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated September 2, 1959 of the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No.
T. V. R. Tatachari, for the appellants.
The present appeal has been brought to this Court by special leave and it arises from a suit filed by the appellants against four respondents.
The original grantdeeds are not available; but at the time of the settlement of the Inams in the sixties of the last century, Inam title deeds were issued in favour of the family of Pachai Kandai Udayavar.
The said properties were alienated from time to time, and as a result of the last alienation, the appellants became entitled to them.
The appellants in the present litigation claimed a declaration about their title to the properties in suit and a permanent injunction restraining respondents 1 to 3, who claimed to be the trustees of an alleged Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple at Eragudi, from interfering with their possession of the same.
Respondent No.
This suit (No.
103 of 1954) was instituted on the 13th September, 1954, under section 87 of the, Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act (No.
Respondents 1 to 3 who have been appointed as trustees of the said temple by respondent No.
Notice of this application was served on the appellants and they pleaded their own title to the properties.
The Magistrate, however, over ruled the claim made by the appellants and directed them to deliver possession of the properties to respondents 1 to 3.
Before this order could be executed and possession delivered to respondents 1 to 3, the appellants instituted the present suit.
Respondents 1 to 3 resisted this suit and contended that the properties in suit had not been granted to the predecessor of Pachai Kandai Udayavar as alleged by the appellants.
As trustees appointed by respondent No.
On these pleadings, four substantive issues were framed by the learned trial Judge; they were : whether the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam; whether the grant of the Inam was a religious endowment; whether plaintiffs have title to the suit properties; and whether plaintiffs have acquired title by prescription ?
The learned trial Judge examined the whole evidence and came to the conclusion that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam, and that it was not a grant in favour of the religious endowment within the meaning of the Act.
In consequence, the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
The alternative plea made by the appellants that they had acquired title to the properties by prescription, was also upheld by the trial Judge.
123 Respondents 1 to 3 preferred an appeal (No.
The lower appellate Court considered three main points; they were : whether the grant was in favour of Ambalathadum Pachai Kandai Udayavar; whether there is a temple; and whether the plaintiffs had prescribed their title to the suit properties by adverse possession.
The lower appellate Court made a finding against respondents 1 to 3 on point No.
It held that the evidence adduced by the respondents did not prove the existence of any temple in favour of which the original grant had been alleged to have been made according to them.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants ' claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession, the lower appellate Court found that "it was evident that from the very beginning, Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
The alienations must, therefore, be regarded only as repudiation of the trust. "
