Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated ' March 6, 1967 of the Orissa High Court in O.J.C.
Nos.
Bindra, G. Rath and R.N.
Prasad, for respondents Nos.
Nos.
, N.M. Patnaik and Vinoo Bhagar, for respondents Nos.
625 and 629 of 1967) and respondents Nos.
These cases are the outcome of an unfortunate conflict between the High Court and the government of Orissa.
The Orissa Superior Judicial Service (senior branch) is a combined cadre consisting of officers holding purely judicial posts as well as posts which are essentially administrative in character.
It consists of eight district and sessions judges, two additional district and sessions judges, secretary to government in law department, superintendent and legal remembrancer, law department, deputy secretary to government in the law department, member administrative tribunal and the Registrar of the Orissa High Court, in all 15 in number.
All these officers are the members of the Orissa '"Judicial Service" within the meaning of that expression in article 236(b) of the Constitution.
Out of these, the district and sessions judges and additional district and sessions judges were discharging purely judicial functions.
In view of article 229 of the Constitution.
the power to appoint the Registrar of the High Court is exclusively that of the Chief Justice.
Neither the High Court as such nor the Governor has any hand in his appointment.
The power to appoint the secretaries to the government is that of the Governor.
Under the Government of India Act 1935, the power to transfer a district judge from one post to another was that of the Governor though that power was always exercised in consultation with the High Court and by and large on the recommendation of the High Court.
In Orissa, as in most of the other States, that practice continued till the decision of tiffs Court in the State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad and others(1).
Obviously when the Governor promulgated the Orissa Superior Judicial Service Rules 1963, he proceeded on the basis that the power to transfer the district judges and addl.
district judges, from one post to another whether as a judge or to one of the posts in the secretariat was in his hands.
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
The High Court was anxious that a judicial officer occupying one of the administrative posts enumerated above, should not, in the interest of judicial work, continue in that post for an unduly long time.
The High Court insisted that ordinarily judicial officers should: not hold those posts for more than three years.
The High Court was repeatedly requesting the government to send back judicial officers working in administrative posts as district judges or as addl.
district judges as the case may be, after they had held those posts for three years or more.
(1) ; 157 Shri B.K.
Patro one of the district and sessions.
judges, was posted as superintendent and legal remembrancer in March 1962 Shri K.K.
district and sessions judge, was posted as joint secretary in the law department in the same month.
Shri P.C.
a district and sessions judge, was posted as member sales tax tribunal on 31 1 62.
That was a non cadre post.
In February 1965, the High Court took a policy decision to the effect that as a general rule, judicial officers working in special posts whether cadre or non cadre, outside their regular line, should be recalled to the regular line after the completion of three years.
in the interest of the service as well as the officers, so that "Officers may not deteriorate by remaining out of touch from regular judicial work for continuously long periods and the service will not suffer by being deprived of the services of senior and experienced officers in manning the posts in the regular judicial line. "
with judicial work and even more than that should become indifferent to judicial approach.
The government by its letter of April 2, 1965, intimated that it had no objection to adhere to the principle of three years service in an appointment at a particular station against a special post.
But when it came to the question of implementing that policy, the government was reluctant.
Every time the High Court requested the government to release the three officers mentioned above for 'being posted as district and sessions judges or addl.
district and sessions judges as the case may be, the government turned down those requests on one ground or the other.
Therein this Court held that power to transfer judges presiding over courts vested with the High Court under article 235 of the Constitution.
Soon after that decision was rendered and without any further dialogue with government in the ' light of that decision, the High Court took the precipitate step of transferring the aforementioned officers to other posts and in their place posted officers who were doing judicial work till then.
By its order dated October 10, 1966, the High Court ordered the following transfers: (a) Shri K.B.
