Appeal No.
647 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated June 19, 24, 1963 of the Gujarat High Court in Appeal No.
704 of 1960 from Appellate Decree.
P. K. Chatterjee and section P. Nayar, for the appellant.
I. N. Shroff, for respondent No.
1. section K. Dholakia and Vineet Kumar, for respondent No.
2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri, J.
This appeal by special leave arises out of the suit filed by Bhaishankar Avalram Joshi, hereinafter referred to as the plaintiff, for a declaration that the order of dismissal, dated February 2/4, 1955, passed by the Inspector General of Prisons, Saurashtra, was illegal and void on the ground that it contravened the provisions of article 311 (2) of the Constitution.
The plaintiff also prayed for a decree for Rs.
2,690 being arrears of his pay from April 1, 1954 to May 7, 1956.
The plaintiff failed before the Civil Judge, Rajkot, but on appeal succeeded before the District Judge, Central Saurashtra, inasmuch as he declared order dated February 2/4, 1955, illegal and void.
The plaintiff appealed to the High Court claiming arrears of salary and the State of Bombay filed cross objections praying that the suit be dismissed.
The second appeal was heard by the High Court of Gujarat (Miabhoy, J.)
who directed that the decree passed by the lower appellate court "be varied so as to show that the appellant (plaintiff) continued to be in Government service till the date of the suit only and there will be a decree for Rs.
2,690 919 being arrears of pay due to the appellant (plaintiff) upto the date of the suit.
There will be a further provision in the decree that the liability arising out of the declaration that the appellant is in Government service is the liability of the State of Gujarat and that the liability for the payment of the arrears of pay is the liability of the State of Maharashtra".
The State of Maharashtra filed as application for leave to appeal under the Letters Patent but this ' was dismissed.
The appeal is now before us.
The learned counsel for the appellant the state of Maharashtra , contends ,first, that the High Court erred in holding that there had been a breach of article 311(2) of the Constitution, as, according to him, there was no duty to supply a copy of the report of the enquiry held against the plaintiff.
Secondly, he contends that the High Court erred in fastening the liability in respect of the arrears of pay on the State of Maharashtra.
Before we deal with the above points we may give a few facts.
The plaintiff entered service in the Gondal State in 1927 as a jailor.
The Gondal State merged with the United States of Saurashtra.
On March 6, 1953, the plaintiff was appointed senior jailor, Surendranagar District Jail.
On March 25, 1954, he was suspended, and at that time he was acting as Accountant at Rajkot Central Jail.
On March 7, 1954, he was served with a charge sheet.
In substance the charges were that while he was serving at Surendranagar he had committed certain acts of mis appropriation of food stuffs meant for prisoners, maltreatment of prisoners and acceptance of illegal gratification from them.
The plaintiff filed a written statement on September 4, 1954, and an enquiry was held by Mr. Gangopadhyay.
The plaintiff appeared before that officer and cross examined witnesses.
He also examined himself and some witnesses.
He was also allowed to appear through an Advocate in the enquiry proceedings.
