Petition under article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of fundamental rights.
section V. Gupte, P. A. Choudhury and K. Rajendra Chaudhuri, for the petitioners.
M. C. Setalvad, P. Ramachandra, Rao, Advocate General, Andhra Pradesh, A. Raghubir and A. V. Rangam, for respondent No.
Sardar Ali Khan, P. N. Duda and J.
B. Dadachanji, for res pondent No.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah, C.J.
The petitioners are persons employed in the ministerial services of the Andhra Pradesh Government.
On January 19, 1969, leaders, of all political parties in the Legislature of the Andhra Pradesh State appeared to have met and reached the decision that to Implement what are called Telengana Safeguards ', the following measures should be taken : "All non domicile persons, who have been appointed either directly, by promotion or by transfer to posts reserved under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Rules, 1959 for domiciles of Telengana region will be immediately relieved from service.
All non domicile employees so relieved shall be provided employment in the Andhra region without break in service and by creating supernumerary posts, if necessary. "
(SR) Dept.)
on January 21, 1969 relieving before February 28, 1969 all non domicile persons appointed on or after November 1, 1956 to certain categories of posts reserved for domiciles of Telengana under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Rules, 1959.
The action was based upon section 3 of the Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence Act, 1957 (44 of 1957) which was an Act of Parliament made in pursuance of cl.
(3) of article 16 of the Constitution making special provision for requirement as to residence and brought into force on March 21, 1959.
Section 3 of the Act gave the power to make Rules in respect of certain classes of employment in certain areas.
Power to make rules in respect of certain classes of public employment in certain areas.
