Appeal No.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 11, 1964 of the Madras High Court in Tax Case No.
[The appeal was originally heard by J. C. Shah, Ag.
The first Order of the Court remanding the case to the Tribunal was delivered by] Shah, Ag.
C. J. M/s Amarchand Sobhachand 'a firm registered under the Indian Income tax Act, 1922, carried on business at Madras in drugs, chemicals, mercury, camphor and silk yam and as money lenders.
There were two partners of the firm Mohanlal Sagmal and Seshmal Sobhachand, and Ramniklal and Lakshmichand minors were admitted to the benefits of the partnership, each with 7/32 share in the profits.
The appellants had for a long time business relations with a firm styled "Bhojaji Sobhachand" carrying on business at Bombay as importers of yam and also as agents and adathias.
Sobhachand, one of the partners of Bhojaji Sobhachand with 16% share in the profit and loss is the father of Seshmal, Ramniklal and Lakshmichand, partners of the appellants.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile, system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect of their business transactions.
Entries relating to interest were posted till the end of Samvat Year 2006 in the account on the amount due at the foot of the account.
1008 7 3 2007 Dr.2,02,823 12 3 2008 Dr.2,68,385 1 3 In the assessment for income tax of the appellants for the assessment year 1952 53 relevant to the account year Samvat 417 2007 all item of Rs.
2,03,147 8 O in the, account of the, Bombay was disallowed by the Income tax Officer, but in appeal the amount was allowed.
in the return of income for the assessment year 1953 54 the appellants claimed allowance for Rs.
2,68,385/ due from the Bombay firm at the foot of their running account as a bad debt written off as irrecoverable.
The Income tax Officer disallowed their claim holding that : "these transactions were mere accommodations which can have no bearing to the regular business carried on by the assessee. "
did not arise, in the course of the appellants ' business as chemists and druggists nor in the course of their money lending business.
The Income tax Appellate Tribunal accordingly confirmed the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
The assessee firm then applied to the Tribunal to refer the following question to the High Court of Madras "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the disallowance of the bad debt of Rs.
