l Misc.
Petitions Nos.
Applications by respondent No.
1 for revocation of the certificate granted by the Madras High Court on 15th October, 1968 under article 133(1)(a) & (b) of the Constitution of India.
AND Civil Appeals Nos.
Appeals from the judgment and order elated October 9, 1968 of the Madras High Court in O.S.A.
Setalvad.
Raman, D.N.
Mishra, and J.B. Dadachanji, for the appellant.
Ramamurthi, Shyamala Pappu and Vineet Kumar, for respondent No.
Rameshwar Nath and Mahinder Narain, for respondent No.
Tarapore & Company hereinafter called the plaintiffs applied in Suit No.
118 of 1967 for an interim injunction restraining the Bank of India Ltd. the first defendant in the suit from taking any steps in pursuance of a letter of credit opened in favour of M/s.
V/O Tractors Export, Moscow, the second defendant.
Ramamurthi, J., by order dated April 12, 1968, granted an interim injunction restraining encashment of the letters of credit pending disposal of the suit.
In appeals under the Letters Patent preferred by the second defendant,.
the High Court of Madras set aside that order.
Against the orders passed in the two appeals, the plaintiffs applied for certificate under Arts.133(1)(a) and 133(1)(b) of the Constitution.
The High Court observed that an order granting interim injunction "is a final order, as far as this Court is concerned, determining the rights of parties within this lit or proceeding, which is independent though ancillary to the suit", and they were competent to grant the certificate.
By our order dated October 28, 1968, we ordered that the certificate granted by the High Court do stand revoked.
Article 133 (1) provides, insofar as it is material: "(1) An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from any judgment, decree or final order in a civil proceeding of a High Court in the territory of India if the High Court certifies (a) that the amount or value of the subject matter of the dispute in the court of first instance and still in dispute on appeal was and is not less than twenty thou sand rupees or such other sum as may be specified in that behalf by Parliament by law; or 701 (b) that the judgment, decree or final order involves directly or indirectly some claim or question respecting property of the like amount or value; or "(c) .
judgment, decree or final order appealed from affirms the decision of the Court immediately below in any case other than a case referred to in sub clause (c), if the High Court further certifies that the appeal involves some substantial question of law. "
