Appeal No.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 17, 1967 of the Patna High Court in C.W.J.C.
section C. Manchanda, R. N. Sachthey and B. D. Sharma, for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde, J.
This is an assessee 's, appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Patna dismissing in limini its writ petition under Arts 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.
The assessee is having construction contracts under the Railways as well as the Government.
It is a partnership firm.
For the assessment year 1960 61, relevant to the accounting year 1959 60, after the assessee submitted its income tax return, it was asked by the Income tax Officer during the income tax assessment proceedings to produce before him its books of account and the other relevant papers.
The assessee also produced before him a statement showing various creditors from whom it had borrowed on Hundis during the accounting year in question.
In that statement it gave the lull names and address of the alleged creditors.
After enquiry, the assessee 's total income was assessed at Rs.
On June 3, 1966, the 1st respondent (Income tax Officer Ward 'A ',, Muzaffarpur) issued to the assessee a notice under section 148 of the Indian Income tax Act, 1961.
The material portion of that notice reads as follows "Notice under section 148 of the Income tax Act, 1961.
Income Tax Officer, Muzaffarpur Dated, the 3 6 1966.
Chugamal Rajpal, Muzaffarpur.
Whereas (1) have reason to believe that your income chargeable the income of 1960 1961 in respect of which you are assessable to tax for the assessment year 19 19 has escaped assessment within the 444 meaning of section 147 of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
I therefore propose to re assess the income for the said assessment year and I hereby require you to deliver to me within 30 days from the date of service of this notice a return in the prescribed form of your income The income assessable relevant to the assessment year 1960 61 of in respect of which you are assessable for the said assessment year.
The notice is being issued after obtaining the necessary satisfaction of the Commissioner of IncomeTax, Bihar and Orissa, Patna.
Sd/ section P. Chaliha Income Tax Officer, Ward A, Muzaffarpur. "
The assessee challenged the validity of that notice as well as proceedings taken on the strength of that notice on various grounds.
In this case the notice was issued after four years but before eight years of the date of the original assessment.
