Appeal No.
From the judgment and order dated the 8th February, 1967 of Le Delhi High Court in Civil Writ No.
Rao and R. N. Sachthey, for the appellants.
Whether the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, New Delhi (Respondent 1) is a "commercial establishment" within the meaning of s.2(5) of the Delhi Shops ,and Establishments Act, 1954 (for short the Act) is the sale question that falls for determination in this appeal by certificate directed against the judgment dated February 8, 1967 of the High Court of Delhi.
The facts bearing on this question may now be stated: Respondent 1 (hereinafter referred to as the Federation) is a Company registered under section 26 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913.
The primary objects of the Federation as given in the Memorandum of Association are "(a) To promote Indian business in matters of inland and foreign trade, transport, industry and manufactures, finance and all other economic subjects and to encourage Indian banking, shipping and insurance.
(b) To encourage friendly feeling end unanimity among business community and association on all subjects connected with the common good of Indian business.
(c) To secure organised action on all subjects mentioned above.
(d) To collect and disseminate statistical and other information and to make effort for the spread of commercial and economic knowledge.
(f)To provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising, in the course of trade, industry or transport or other business matters, and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
(g) To conduct, undertake the conduct of and participate in national and international exhibitions.
(h) To set up museums or show rooms, to exhibit the products of India and other countries and to participate in such activities.
(1) To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
(m) To help in the Organisation of Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations in different commercial centres of the country.
(n) (O) (p) (q) (r) (s) (t) (u) (v) (x) (y) To sell or dispose of the undertaking of the Federation or any part thereof for such consideration as the Federation may think fit and in particular for shares, debentures, or securities of any other association or company having objects altogether or in similar to those of the Federation.
(z4) (4) The income and property of the Federation, whencesoever derived, shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the Federation as set forth in the Memorandum of Association; and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly, by way of dividend, bonus, or otherwise by way of profit to the members of the Federation.
The Articles of Association inter alia provide that a Chamber or an Association can become an ordinary member of the Federation on payment of annual subscription of Rs.
1,000,/ or such higher amount as may from time to time be fixed by the Federation in addition to the admission fee of Rs.
The Chief Inspector of Shops and Establishments, Delhi (Appellant 2 herein) called upon the Federation to register its establishment 'he under the Act The Federation failed to comply with the direction and contended that it was not an "establishment" as defined in section 2(9) of the Act.
This contention did not find favour with the Chief Inspector who, in consequence, made a complaint under the Act for prosecution of the Secretary of the Federation (Respondent 2 herein) under the appropriate penal provisions of the Act in the Court of the Magistrate.
