Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 20th December 1962 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Civil Appeal No.
The question that arises in this appeal by special leave is whether Shri Vithal Sukhamai Sansthan at Amalner, (East Khandesh) was a private Devasthan or a public religious trust.
There was a saint endowed with spiritual powers by the name of Sakharam Maharaj at Amalner.
The deity of his worship was Shri Vithal Rukhamai.
He also acquired certain properties and the said temple with the properties constituted Shri Vithal Rukhamai Sansthan of Amalner.
The sansthan had movable property of the value of Rs.
19,164/ and immovable properties of the value of Rs.
The application was made on May 29, 1952, to the Assistant Charity Commissioner, Poona, under protest and without prejudice 520 to the claim made therein that the Sansthan was not a public trust.
On behalf of the applicants representing the Sansthan evidence of the attorney Ramkrishna Deshpande was recorded and he was cross examined by the assessors as well as by the Assistant Charity Commissioner.
At the close of the enquiry the Assistant Charity Commissioner by his order of August 25, 1956, held the Sansthan to be a public trust and ordered its registration as a public trust under the Act.
The applicants thereupon filed an appeal under section 70 of the Act before the Charity Commissioner, Bombay, who by his order of August 31, 1957, affirmed the decision of the Assistant Charity Commissioner.
That led to an application under section 72 of the Act to the District Judge of West Khandesh at Dhulia which was duly filed on behalf of Purshottambuwa who meanwhile succeeded Guru Vasudeobuwa as "owner" of the Sansthan.
The learned District Judge reversed the decision of the Charity Commissioner by his order of October 16, 1959, and declared the Sansthan to be a private property and not a public trust.
The Charity Commissioner then appealed under section 72(4) of the Act to the High Court of Bombay.
The High Court by its order of 19/20th December, 1962, set aside the order of the District Judge and held the Sansthan to be a public trust under the Act and restored the order of the Charity Commissioner.
The learned District Judge relied mostly on the documentary evidence for his conclusion in favour of the appellant.
The High Court took note of both oral as well as documentary evidence.
The High Court particularly relied upon an admission of the appellant 's witness, Ramkrishna Deshpande, when he stated that "we cannot prevent people from going to the temple as the temple is meant for the Darshan by the public".
It is not disputed by Mr. Bal appearing on behalf of the appellant that the Sansthan in question is an endowment.
His only contention is that it is a private religious endowment and not a public one.
He submits that there is no evidence of long user of this temple by 521 the public as a matter of right.
Mr. Bal further contends that the High Court failed to consider all the material documents filed on behalf of the appellant except only exhibit 35 and that the conclusion was highly erroneous being contrary to the one that had been reached by the District Judge on appraisal of the entire documentary evidence.
Before we proceed further, it may be appropriate to note the definitions of 'public trust ' and 'temple ' in section 2(13) and section 2(17) respectively of the Act which read as follows: section 2(13): "Public trust ' means an express or constructive trust for either a public religious or charitable purpose, or both and includes a temple, a math, a wakf, church syna gogue, agiary or other place of public religious worship, a dharmada or any other religious or charitable endowment. "
