Appeal No.
1951 of 1975.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Award of the Industrial Tribunal, Gujarat in Reference (II) No.
30 of 1974, pub lished in the Gujarat Govt.
Gazette dated 23 10 1975 and Civil Appeal No.
631 of 1976 Appeal by Special leave from the Award of the Industrial Tribunal, Gujarat in Ref.
(II) No.
158 of 1974 published in the Gujarat Govt.
Gazette Part I L dated 15 4 76.
V.B.
Patel, 1.
N. Shroff and H.S.
Parihar for the appel lants (In CA 1951/75).
S.T.
Desai, A. P. Hathi, Mrs. section Bhandare, M. section Narasimhan K.C.
Sharma, A. K. Sharma and A. K. Mathur for the appellants in C.A.
631/76.
V.M.
Tarkunde, K.L.
Hathi and P.C.
Kapur for the Re spondent in C.A.
1951/75 and Res.
S.S. Khanduja, S.K.
Jain and Mrs. Laxmi Arvid for Re spondent Nos.
1(2) In C.A.
631/76.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SHINGHAL, J.
These two are companion appeals by special leave.
They have been heard together at the in stance.
of the learned counsel for the parties, and will be disposed by a common judgment.
Appeal No.
1951 of 1975 is directed against the award of the Industrial Tribunal Gujarat, dated September 24, 1975, in the dispute between the Alembic Glass Industries Ltd., Baroda, and its workmen, while appeal No.
631 of 1976 arises out of the Tribunal 's award in the dispute between Jyoti Limited, Baroda, and its workmen.
Speaking broadly, the dispute in both cases related to the workmen 's demand for 10 days sick leave, with retrospective effect, and ,its accumulation over a period of three years i.e. upto 30 days.
The workmen particularly felt aggrieved because by virtue of the first proviso to section 49 of the , hereinafter referred to as the Act, they were not entitled to the sickness benefit for the first two days of sickness except in the case of a, spell of sickness following, at an interval of not more than 15 days, the spell of sickness for which sickness benefit was last paid.
It was also a grievance that the benefit under the scheme of the Act was much less than the normal earnings of an employee and was not beneficial to the workmen.
The demand was resisted by the Companies in both cases.
In the case of the Alembic Glass Industries Ltd., it was contended that the Act provided more than adequate sickness benefits, and any additional 82 benefit would place unproductive financial burden on the industry and would have an all round adverse effect on other industries.
It was also urged that section 99 of the Act gave wide powers to the Employees ' State Insurance Corpora tion to enhance the benefit and it was therefore the proper authority to examine the demand.
The Company also contended that there was no practice of giving any such sick leave in the industries in Baroda or in the State of Gujarat.
In the case of Jyoti Ltd. an objection was taken that the reference was incompetent and the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to entertain it.
It was also pointed out that the benefit of sick.leave of 7 days per year was initially given to the workmen under an award dated August 29, 1958 which contained a specific direction that it would be automatically discon tinued when the benefits of the Employees ' State Insurance scheme would become available to the workmen, and also that the reasonableness of the demand could not be examined by the Tribunal.
