: Criminal Appeal No 133 of 1975.
Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
P. Parmeswara Rao and G. N. Rao for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY, J.
This appeal has been filed under Section 2(a) of the .
The appellant was acquitted by the learned Additional Sessions judge, Chittoor of an offence under Section 302, Indian Penal Code.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
365 The deceased Subhadramma was the wife of the appellant.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child, according to customary practice, were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased 's mother.
After about one and a half months the, accused asked his mother in law and brother in law to send his wife to his place.
They replied that she had only delivered a child recently and that she would be sent to her husband 's house in the fifth month.
On 18th December, 1972, according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
This time he also brought with him P.W.
His mother in law P.W.
2 told him that she would send the girl in the fifth month as she had not yet regained her health after delivery.
The accused and P. W. 8 went away.
That evening the accused again came to the house of his mother in law.
After dinner all of them went to sleep.
The house consisted of only one room.
The accused, the deceased, her brother P.W.
1, her mother P.W.
2 and her grand mother P.W.
3 were all sleeping in the room.
In the middle of the night P.Ws.
1, 2 and 3 were awakened by the cry "Amma" raised by Subhadramma.
On waking up they saw the accused sitting by the side of the deceased with a knife in his hand.
They found the deceased bleeding profusely from the left side of her chest.
1 put his foot on the hand in which the accused was holding the knife.
The accused dropped the knife which was then picked up by the grand mother P.W.
Attracted by the cries raised by the P.Ws.
1 to 3, the neighbourers P. Ws.
They caught hold of the accused and tied him to a pole in front of the house by means of a rope.
Some of the villagers who had gathered there also gave a beating to the accused P.W.
proceeded to the house of P.W.
9 the Village Munsif and reported the occurrence to him.
P. W. 1 affixed his thumb impression on the report exhibit P. 1 prepared by P. W. 9.
P. W. 9 then proceeded to the house of P.W.
1 where the blood stained knife M.O.
Thereafter, P. W. 9 prepared his own report exhibit P. 4 and sent it alongwith exhibit P. 1 and M.O.
1 to the Police Station at Renigunta.
P. W. 14, the Sub Inspector of Police registered the First Information Report at 5 A. M. on 19th December, 1972 and went ahead with the further investigation which was later taken over by the Inspector of Police P.W.
When the Police officers went to the village, they 366 found the accused tied to a pole.
They arrested him and found that he had injuries on his person.
After holding the inquest the dead body was sent for postmortem examination.
The Medical Officer, P. W. 12 who conducted the autopsy, found on the dead body a stab wound over the left axila 6 cms.
nearly horizontal.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
The upper lobe of the left lung had been cut through and through,, and had collapsed.
P. W. 13 the Medical officer who examined the accused found several abrasions and contusions on the person of the accused.
There was no fracture.
After completing the investigation the Police laid a chargesheet against the accused and he was duly tried.
