N.C. Sikri for the Appellant.
Hardayal Hardy, Girish Chandra and R.N.
The question is whether a Specialist Grade II in a teaching hospital belonging to the Central Health Service is eligible for appointment or promotion as a Professor or Associate Professor of the concerned speciality.
The appeal turns on a construction of sub rs.
(2) and (2A) of r.8 and paragraphs 2(b) and 3 of Annexure I to the Second Schedule of the Central Health Service (Amendment) Rules, 1966.
The Service was constituted for providing doctors for manning the medical, public health and medical research and teaching posts in the Central Government hospitals, dispensaries scientific research institutions and institutions of higher education.
R.3 provided for the constitution of the Central Health Service.
80% of the vacancies in Category 'B ' of the supertime scale were to be filled by promotion through Departmental Promotion Committee of officers holding the post in the senior scale who had rendered not less than six years of service in that scale and 20% of the vacancies thereof were to be filled by direct recruitment in the manner prescribed in the Second Schedule.
By the Central Heath Service (Amendment) Rules, 1966, the Central Health Service was reorganized with effect from September 9, 1966 and the concept of General Duty officers and Specialist Grade Officers was introduced for the first time.
R.3 provides that there shall be a Service constituted to be known as the "Central Health Service" consisting of (a) persons appointed to the Service under r.7 or r.7A, and (b) persons appointed to the Service under r.8.
Category (1) Supertime Grade, apart from the post of (i) Director General of Health Services on a fixed pay scale of Rs.2750/ and (ii) Additional Director General of Health Services on a fixed pay of Rs.
1800 2250; Supertime Grade II with a pay scale of Rs.
1300 1800; Category (2) Specialists ' Grade with a pay scale of Rs.
600 1300; Category (3) General Duty Officers Grade I with a pay scale of Rs.
450 1250; and Category (4) General Duty Officers Grade II on a scale of Rs.
Part A deals with the departmental candidates who were initially appointed in Categories 'A ' and 'B ' of the Service prior to the 1966 Rules.
All of them are to be appointed to the corresponding Supertime Grade I and Supertime Grade II of the new Categories.
Part B provides that every departmental candidate who was initially appointed to a category "other than Categories 'A ' and 'B ' shall be appointed to the newly formed appropriate Category "After selection".
Accordingly, officers from Category 'C ', Category 'D ' and Category 'E ' and were selected by the Departmental Promotion Committee for appointment to the Specialists ' Grade General Duty Officers Grade I and General Duty officers Grade I and General Duty Officers Grade II after taking into account the qualification, experience and conditions of eligibility.
R.8 (2) provides that every vacancy in the Specialists ' Grade shall be filled by direct recruitment in the manner provided by the Second Schedule through the Union Public Service Commission, subject to the exception made in r.8(2A) with regard to Associate Professors and Assistant Professors.
R.8(3) provides for 50% of the vacancies in Supertime Grade II to be filled by promotion of General Duty Officers Grade I and Specialists ' Grade Officers in the ratio of 2 : 3 on the basis of merit and seniority and the remaining 50% of the vacancies are to be filled by direct recruitment in the manner specified in the Second Schedule.
It would therefore appear that there is 50% direct recruitment in Supertime Grade II which practice is in the public interest and is essential for the maintenance of efficiency.
In view of this, the Third Pay Commission found it difficult to recommend the merger of the Specialists ' Grade with the Supertime Grade II, but at the same time it appreciated present difficulties in promotion of Specialists to Supertime Grade II.
The posts which cannot be filled by direct recruitment through the Union Public Service Commission and it would be open to the Specialists ' grade officers to compete for such posts.
These posts should not be filled by hospital specialists or teaching specialists by promotion in the normal course.
The Supertime Grade II will thus consist only of administrative posts in future for which the revised scale will be Rs.
The teaching posts (Professors) and hospital specialist ' posts (comprising other than administrative and teaching posts) at present included in Supertime Grade II should be placed in the revised scale of Rs.
This new grade may be called Specialists ' Grade I and the existing Specialists ' Grade may be called Specialists ' Grade II.
50% of the vacancies in the new grade (i.e., Specialists Grade I) should be filled by direct recruitment as at present, the remaining 50% being filled by promotion from the new Specialists ' Grade II.
We notice that at present out of 27 clinical specialities only a few have posts in Supertime Grade II.
The proportion of hospital specialists ' posts in the new grade should not exceed 20% of the number of hospital specialists ' posts in the lower grade (Specialists Grade II) and additional number of posts as may be necessary to make up the 20% may be created."
(Emphasis supplied) As a result of the recommendation of the Third Pay Commission, the Specialists ' Grade is now bifurcated into specialists 22 Grade I or Supertime Grade II carrying a pay scale of Rs.
1800 2250 and Specialists Grade II carrying a pay scale of Rs.
Grade Pay (Rs.)
(a) Supertime Grade I (i) Director General Health Services 3500 (ii) Commissioner of Rural Health 3000 (iii) Additional Director General Health Services 3000 (iv) Other post (a) Level I 2500 2750 (b) Level II 2250 2500 (b) Supertime Grade II & Specialists Grade I 1800 2250 2.
Specialist Grade II 1100 1800 3.
