Appeals by Special Leave granted by Supreme Court on the 18th January, 1954 from the Judgment and Order dated the 18th June, 1953 of the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad in Confirmation Case No.
376/6 of 1952 53 and Criminal Appeals Nos.394/6, 395/6 and 392/6 of 1952 53 arising out of the Judgment and Order dated the 2nd June, 1952 of the Court of the Sessions Judge at Bidar in Sessions Case No.
Each was convicted and each was 1085 sentenced to death under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
The appeals and the confirmation proceedings in the High Court were heard by M. section Ali Khan and V. R. Deshpande, JJ.
On the question of sentence he considered that the death sentences on the three appellants, Pandurang, Tukia and Bhilia, should be maintained and that those of the other two should be commuted to transportation for life.
All five convicts then applied to the High Court for leave to appeal.
The petition was heard by Ali Khan and Reddy, JJ.
and they made the following order: "The circumstances of the crime in this case were such that a brutal murder had been committed and sentence of death was the only one legally possible for the Sessions Judge to have passed and it was confirmed by the High Court".
Pandurang, Tukia and Bhilia, who were sentenced to death, applied here for special leave to appeal.
The prosecution case is this.
On 7 12 1950, about 3 o 'clock in the afternoon,, Ramchander Shelke (the deceased) went to his field known as "Bhavara" with his wife 's sister Rasika Bai (P.W.1) and his servant Subhana Rao (P.W.7).
Anyway, Rasika Bai heard shouts from that direction, so she ran to the river bank with Subhana and they both say that they saw all five accused attacking Ramchander with axes and sticks.
They also say they witnessed the assault and name all five accused.
Rasika Bai shouted out to the assailants not to beat Ramchander but they threatened her and then ran away.
Ordinarily, we would not have enquired into questions of fact but as three persons have been sentenced to death on the opinion of the third Judge, despite the opinion of one that the death sentence should not be imposed and of the other that the appellants are not guilty and so should be acquitted, we have deemed it advisable to examine the evidence.
