ivil Appeal No.
378 of 1987.
237 From the Judgment and Order dated 4.8.1986 of the Cal cutta High Court in F.M.A.T.
No.
1500 of 1984.
L.M.
Singhvi S.K.
Jain, I. Makwana, A.M. Singhvi, Sud hanshu Atreya and S .D.
Sharma for the Appellants.
N.N.
Gooptu, Dipanker Gupta P. Mondal, D.K.
Sinha, J.R. Das, T. Ray.
R. Pal, B.R.
Agarwala and Ms. section Manchanda for the Respondent.
The following Judgments of the Court were delivered: CHINNAPPA REDDY, J.
We grant special leave and proceed to dispose of the appeal.
A hundred and thirty two years ago, in 1854, 'the wise Indian Chief of Seattle ' replied to the offer of 'the great White Chief in Washington ' to buy their land.
The reply is profound It is beautiful.
It is timeless.
It contains the wisdom of the ages.
It is the first ever and the most under standing statement on environment.
It is worth quoting.
To abridge it or to quote extracts from it is to destroy its beauty.
You cannot scratch a painting and not diminish its beauty.
We will quote the whole of it: * "How can you buy or sell the sky, the warmth of the land?
The idea is strange to us.
"If we do not own the freshness of the air and the sparkle of the water, how can you buy them?
"Every part of the earth is sacred to my people.
Every shining pine needle, every sandy shore, every mist in the dark woods, every clearing and humming insect is holy in the memory and experience of my people.
The Sap which courses through the trees carries the memories of the red man.
"The white man 's dead forget the country of their birth when they go to walk among the stars.
Our dead never forget this beautiful earth, for it is the mother of the *Reproduced verbatim from Pariyavaran Vol.
I No.
1, June 1984.
238 red man.
We are part of the earth and it is part of us.
The perfumed flowers are our sisters; the horse, the great eagle, these are our brothers.
The rockly crests, the juices in the meadows, the body heat of the pony, and man all belong to the same family.
"So, when the Great Chief in Washing ton sends word that he wishes to buy our land, he asks much of us.
The Great Chief sends word he will reserve us a place so that we can live comfortably to ourselves.
He will be our father and we will be his children.
So we will consider your offer to buy our land.
But it will not be easy.
For this land is sacred to us.
"This shining water moves in the streams and rivers is not just water but the blood of our ancestors.
If we sell you land, you must remember that it is sacred, and you must teach your children that it is sacred and that each ghostly reflection in the clear water of the lakes tells of events and memo ries in the life of my people.
The water 's murmur is the voice of my father 's father.
"The rivers are our brothers, they quench our thirst.
The rivers carry our canoes, and food our children.
If we sell you our land, you must remember, and teach your children, that the rivers are our brothers, and yours and you must henceforth give the kindness you would give any brother.
"We know that the white man does not understand our ways.
One portion of, land is the same to him as the next, for he is a stranger who comes in the night and takes from the land whatever he needs.
The earth is not his brother but his enemy, and when he has conquered it, he moves on.
He leaves his fathers ' graves behind, and he does not care.
"He kidnaps the earth from his chil dren.
His father 's grave and his children 's birth right are forgotten.
He treats his mother, the earth, and his brother, the sky, as things to be bought, plundered, sold like sheep or bright beads.
His appetite will devour the earth and leave behind only a desert.
239 "I do not know.
Our ways are different from your ways.
The sight of your cities pains the eyes of the red man.
But perhaps it is because the red man is a savage and does not understand.
"There is no quite place in the white man 's cities.
No place to hear the unfurling of leaves in spring or the rustle of an in sect 's wings.
But perhaps it is because I am a savage and do not understand.
The clatter only seems to insult the ears.
And what is there to life if a man cannot hear the lonely cry of the whippoorwill or the arguments of the frogs around a pond at night?
I am a red man and do not understand.
The Indian prefers the soft sound of the wind darting over the face of a pond, and the small of the wind itself, cleansed by a mid day rain, or scented with the pinon pine.
The air is precious to the red man, for all things share the same breath the beast, the tree, the man, they all share the same breath.
The white man does not seem to notice the air he breathes.
Like a man dying for many days, he is numb to the stench.
But if we sell you our land, you must remember that the air is precious to us, that the air shares its spirit with all the life it supports.
The wind that gave our grandfather his first breath also receives the last sigh.
And if we sell you our land, you must keep it apart and sacred as a place where even the white man can go to taste the wind that is sweetened by the meadows flowers.
"So we will consider your offer to buy our land.
If we decide to accept, I will make one condition.
The White man must treat the beasts of this land as his brothers.
"I am a savage and I do not understand any other way.
I have seen a thousand rotting buffaloes on the prairie, left by the white man who shot them from a passing train.
I am a savage and I do not understand how the smoking iron horse can be more important than the buffalo that we kill only to stay alive.
"What is man without the beasts?
If all the beasts were gone, man would die from a great loneliness of spirit.
240 For whatever happens to the beasts soon hap pens to man.
All things are connected.
"You must teach your children that the ground beneath their feet is the ashes of our grandfathers.
So that they will respect the land.
Tell your children that the earth is rich with the lives of our kin.
Teach your children what we have taught our children, that the earth if sun mother.
Whatever befalls the earth befalls the sons of the earth.
If men spit upon the ground, they spit upon themselves.
"This we know: The earth does not belong to man; man belongs to the earth.
This we know: All things are connected like the blood which unites one family.
All things are con nected.
"Whatever befalls the earth befalls the sons of the earth.
Man did not weave to web of life: he is merely a strand in it.
Whatever he does to the web he does to himself.
"Even the white man, whose God walks and talks with him as friend to friend, cannot be exempt from the common destiny.
We may be brothers after all.
We shall see.
One thing we know, which the white man may one day discov er our God is the same God.
You may think now that you own Him as you wish to own our land; but you cannot.
He is the God of man, and His compassion is equal for the red man and the white.
This earth is precious to Him, and to harm the earth is to heap contempt on its Creater.
The white too shall pass; perhaps sooner than all other tribes.
Contaminate your bed and you will one night suffocate in your own waste.
"But in your perishing you will shine brightly, fired by the strength of the God who brought you to this land and for some special purpose gave you dominion over this land and over the red man.
That destiny is a mystery to us, for we do not understand when the wild buffalo are all slaughtered, the wild horses are tamed, the secret corners of the forest heavy with scent of many man and the view of the ripe hills blotted by talking wires.
Where is the thicket?
241 Gone.
Where is the eagle?
Gone.
The end of living and the beginning of survival."
Today society 's interaction with nature is so extensive that the environmental question has assumed proportions affecting all humanity.
Industrialisation, urbanisation, explosion of population, overexploitation of resources, depletion of traditional sources of energy and raw materials and the search for new sources of energy and raw materials, the disruption of natural ecological balances, the destruc tion of a multitude of animal and plant species for economic reasons and sometimes for no good reason at all are factors which have contributed to environmental deterioration.
While the scientific and technological progress of man has invest ed him with immense power over nature, it has also resulted in the unthinking use of the power, encroaching endlessly on nature.
If man is able to transform deserts into cases, he is also leaving behind deserts in the place of cases.
In the last century, a great German materialist philosopher warned mankind: "Let us not, however, flatter ourselves overmuch on account of our human victories over nature.
For each such victory nature takes its revenge on us.
Each victory, it is true, in the first place brings about the results we expect ed, but in the second and third places it has quite differ ent, unforeseen effects which only too often cancel the first. "
Ecologists are of the opinion that the most impor tant ecological and social problem is the wide spread disap pearance all over the world of certain species of living organisms.
Biologists forecast the extinction of animal and plant species on a scale that is incomparably greater than their extinction over the course of millions of years.
It is said that over half the species which became extinct over the last 2,000 years did so after 1900.
The International Association for the Protection of Nature and Natural Re sources calculates that now, on an average, one species or sub species is lost every year.
It is said that approximate ly 1,000 bird and animal species are facing extinction at present.
So it is that the environmental question has became urgent and it has to be properly understood and squarely met by man.
Nature and history, it has been said, are two compo nent parts of the environment is which we live, move and prove ourselves.
In India, as elsewhere in the world, uncontrolled growth and the consequent environmental deterioration are fast assuming menacing proportions and all Indian cities are afflicted with this problem.
The once Imperial City of Calcutta is.no exception.
The question raised in the present case is whether the Government of West Bengal has shown such lack of awareness of the problem of environment in making an 242 allotment of land for the construction of a Five Star Hotel at the expense of the zoological garden that it warrants interference by this Court?
Obviously, if the Government is alive to the various considerations requiring thought and deliberation and has arrived at a conscious decision after taking them into account, it may not be for this Court to interfere in the absence of mala fides.
On the other hand, if relevant considerations are not borne in mind and irrele vant considerations influence the decision, the Court may interfere in order to prevent a likelihood of prejudice to the public.
Whenever a problem of ecology is brought before the Court, the Court is bound to bear in mind article 48A of the Constitution, the Directive Principle which enjoins that "The State shall endeavour to protect and improve the envi ronment and to safeguard the forests and wild life of the country," and article 51A(g) which proclaims it to be the fundamental duty of every citizen of India "to protect and improve the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers and wild life, and to have compassion for living creatures. "
When the Court is called upon to give effect to the Directive Principle and the fundamental duty, the Court is not to shrug its shoulders and say that priorities are a matter of policy and so it is a matter for the policy making authority.
The least that the Court may do is to examine whether appropriate consideration are borne in mind and irrelevancies excluded.
In appropriate cases, the Court may go further, but how much further must depend on the circum stances of the case.
The Court may always give necessary directions.
However the Court will not attempt to nicely balance relevant considerations.
When the question involves the nice balancing of relevant considerations, the Court may feel justified in resigning itself to acceptance of the decision of the concerned authority.
We may now proceed to examine the facts of the present case.
There is in Calcutta a zoological garden located in Allipore, now almost the heart of Calcutta, on either side of Belvedere Road, one of Calcutta 's main arterial roads, fortynine acres on one side and eight acres on the other.
The main zoo is in the fortynine acres block of land.
There are some old buildings and vacant land in the eight acre plot of land.
This eight acre plot of land is known as the Begumbari land.
It is out of these eight acres that the land of the extent of four acres has been carved out and given to the Taj Group of Hotels for the construction of a Five Star Hotel.
It is this giving away of land, that was challenged before the High Court and is now challenged in this Court in this appeal by two citizens of Calcutta, one of them the Secretary of the Union of workmen of the zoological garden and the other a life 243 member of the zoo, both of whom claiming to be lovers of wild life and well wishers of the zoo.
In January 1979, the Director General of Tourism, Gov ernment of India, addressed a letter to the Chief Secretary, Government of West Bengal conveying the resolution of the Tourism Conference which was presided over by the Union Minister of Tourism and attended by several State Ministers and requesting that land in good locations may be made available for construction of hotels in a drive to encourage tourism.
In May, 1980 the Taj Group of Hotels came forward with a suggestion that they would be able to construct a Five Star Hotel if any of three properties on Chowringhee, specified by them, was made available to them.
The Govern ment found that there was some litigation connected with the Chowringhee properties and, therefore, it would not be possible to convey the Chowringhee properties to the Taj Group of Hotels.
On September 29, 1980 and November 29, 1980, there were two notes by the Secretary of the Metropol itan Development Department to the effect that the I.T.D.C.
was interested in a property known as the Hastings House Property and that the Taj Group of Hotels who considered the Hastings House property unsuitable may be offered four acres out of the eight acres of Begumbari land.
On the same day the Taj Group of Hotels wrote to the Government of West Bengal stating that the proposed land could be seriously considerd for construction of a Hotel.
Thereafter the Chief Minsiter along with the Minister of Tourism and the Minister for Metropolitan Development visited the site accompanied by the Director of the Zoo who apparently knew about the pro posal right from the start.
A note was then prepared by the secretary, Metropoli tan Development Department and put up to the Chief Minister for his approval.
The note suggested that the Hastings House property may be offered to the I.T.D.C.
and the Begumbari property may be offered to the Taj Group and that at a later stage a suitable Committee might be appointed to negotiate with the two groups of hotels.
The Chief Minister approved the proposal and re quired it to be placed before the Cabinet.
On January 7, 1981 a memorandum was prepared for the consideration of the Cabinet explaining the need for more Five Star Hotels in Calcutta and the benefits flowing out of the construction and establishment of such Five Star hotels.
It was suggested that the Hastings House Property may be leased to the I.T.D.C.
Group and the Begumbari property to the Taj Group of Hotels.
In regard to the Begumbari property, it was stated: "From the property of the Zoological Gardens on the Belvedere Road it is possible to carve out about four acres of land currently used for dumping garbage and also for 244 growing grass for the elephants.
It will be necessary and in any case advisable to shift the dumping ground, while ade quate space can be made available for growing grass else where in the same area. "
It was stated that the Finance and Tourism Department had agreed to the proposal to lease the properties to the I.T.D.C.
and the Taj Group respectively.
It was stated that though the Forest Department had suggest ed that Salt Lake was a better place for establishing a Five Star Hotel, there was no demand for a Five Star Hotel in that area and the request for a hotel in Salt Lake was confined to a Three Star Hotel.
Cabinet approval was sought for the offers to be made to the I.T.D.C.
and to the Taj Group and for the constitution of a suitable Committee to undertake negotiations with the two groups.
On February 12, 1981, the Cabinet took a decision ap proving the proposal contained in the last paragraph of the Cabinet Memorandum, thus clearing the way for negotiations with the Taj Group.
Meanwhile, it appeared that the Public Undertakings Committee appointed by the West Bengal Legislative Assembly submitted a port on February 14, 1981 about the zoo in which they stated.
"* * * * * * Originally this zoo was on the outskirts of the City but the City has grown in such a fashion that the zoo has vertually become the City Centre and there is hardly any scope for its expansion.
The zoo is situated on the left bank of the Tolly 's Nallla divided with two parts on either said of the Alipore Road.
The zoo proper is about 40 acres on the Western side, while the eastern part comprises the Zoo Hospital, audiovisual centre acquari um, Zoo store and Staff quarters.
The Commit tee was informed that now adays migratory birds were coming less in number though previ ously more foreign birds used to come here and in the opinion of the Managing Committee, the main reason for this was due to air and sound pollution.
Breeding potentialities of animals and birds have been retarded due to constant stress and strain on the animals and also due to atmospheric reasons.
* * * * * *The Commit tee came to learn that a big hotel was pro posed to be constructed on the plot of land where fodder for elephant are being grown to meet at least a portion of the elephants food.
Moreover, the staff quarters, hospitals for animals and the morgue are also situated near the said plot of land.
If the proposed hotel is set up, all the existing buildings, viz.
hospital, morgue etc.
245 would have to be shifted to the main Gardens resulting in unhealthy atmosphere for the zoo animals and also hampering the beauty of the zoo Gardens.
This would also create problems to the staff quarters and acquarium. "
The Committee also referred to a proposal to establish a 'Subsidiary Zoo ' some slight distance from Calcutta City and the request said to have been made for the allotment of 200 acres of land for that purpose.
It was suggested that the Government may consider abandoning the proposal to set up a hotel on the Eastern side of the Zoo.
The Chief Town Planner also visited the site at the request of the Secretary, Metropolitan Development Depart ment.
The inspection was made in the presence of the Direc tor of the zoo.
The Chief Town Planner thought that two to 21/2 acres of land only might be made available for the hotel.
He expressed the apprehension that if four acres of land were to be given for construction of a hotel, then the entire hospital and the dumping ground would have to be removed and the southern boundary of the hotel would come very close to the residential block.
On March 19, the Taj Group submitted a proposal to the Government containing fairly detailed information about the tourism industry and its needs, the situation in Calcutta, the realities of hotel construction, the facts relating to what had been done in other cities, the benefits flowing out of the construction of hotels and their own proposals for constructing a hotel in the four acres of land in Belyedere Road.
Two alternative financial arrangements were suggested.
The first alternative was the payment of annual rent on the basis of the valuation of the land, the second alternative was based on the concept of nett sales, nett sales being defined as sales after deducting all taxes and levies and service charges.
The Metropolitan Development Department expressed a preference for the second alternative and sug gested the constitution of a Committee.
The Finance Depart ment also approved.
The Taj Group was invited to send the financial projection on the basis of the second alternative.
Correspondence went on.
On June 5, 1981, a Committee of Secretaries was formally constituted.
In the meanwhile, WEBCON, a West Bengal Government Consultancy Undertaking, was asked to examine the proposals and to advise the Government.
The WEBCON submitted its report on July 14, 1981 and on the request of the Committee of Secretaries a further report was submitted on July 22, 1981.
The report of WEBCON is a 246 comprehensive report on various topics connected with the establishment of a Five Star Hotel in Calcutta.
Among other things the report also suggested various financial alterna tives and recommended the second alternative based on nett sales as the best.
It is to be mentioned here that even by February 21, 1981 the proposal to lease out the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels had become public knowledge and newspapers carried reports on the same.
On June 9, 1981, the Secretary of the Animal Husbandary and Veterinary Services Department complained to the Secre tary of the Metropolitan Development Department that they were not aware of the decision to lease the Begambari land.
The Secretary, Metropolitan Development Department made an endorsement on the letter to the effect that the Minister for Animal Husbandry and Veterinary services had himself visited the site.
In fact, as we have seen, the matter had been considered and approved by the Cabinet itself and all Departments must necessarily have been appraised of the proposal.
While so, the Managing Committee of the Zoo, on June 11, 1981, passed a resolution expressing itself against the proposal to construct a hotel on land belonging to the Zoo.
The Resolution said, "The proposal for soil testing of zoo land in the Begumbari Compound for the purpose of construction of Five Star Hotel was discussed in the meeting.
The Committee resolved that construction of a multistories buildings in the near vicinity of the zoo will be highly detrimental to the animals of the Zoo, its ecological balance and adversely affect the bird migration which is one of the greatest attractions of the zoo.
The area proposed to be taken for Hotel construction is already used by the zoo for fodder cultivation, burial ground for dead animals, animal hospital, operation theater, quarantine area, segrega tion wards, postmortem room and nursery both for zoo animals and horticultural section.
These essential services cannot be accommodat ed within the campus of the main zoo for risk of spreading of infection to other animals of the zoo.
Procurement of green fodder for the large number of harvivorous animals of the zoo is already a serious problem for the zoo and any disturbance to fodder cultivation will aggravate the situation.
The Calcutta Zoo has the smallest area in comparison to other reputed Zoo.
The Committee is of a opinion that no portion of Zoo land can be parted with for any other 247 purpose.
This being the position soil testing will hardly be of any avail as the zoo cannot spare the land.
Shri Ashoka Basu, M.L.A., Shri K.P.
Banerjee and Shri A.K.
Das abstained from participation in the proceedings. "
The Minister for Metropolitan Development submitted a note to the Chief Minister on the resolution of the Managing Committee of the Zoo.
He pointed out that even if four acres out of the eight acres of Begumbari land was given to the Taj Group, there would still remain sufficient land for accommodation of the facilities.
He added that the Managing Committee 's resolution was not binding on the Government and suggested that the Director of the Zoo might be asked to allow the Taj Group to undertake soil testing etc.
so that work may proceed according to the time schedule.
The Chief Minister endorsed the following.
"I agree.
It is unfortunate that we have not been able to accept the contentions of the Managing Committee.
If further facilities are necessary for the Zoo, the Government will provide them."
In June 25, 1981, the Managing Committee of the Zoo met again and passed another Resolution by which they withdrew their earlier objections.
The Resolution stated.
"In view of the letter issued to the Zoologi cal Gardens, Alipore and the Cabinet decision regarding the land of Begumbari Compound and in consideration of the assurance conveyed through Shri Ashoka Bose, Chief Whip and Member that the State Government will give to the Garden adjacent lands and matching grants for the purposes of shifting of the Depart ments of the Zoo within the said compound, the members do not press their objections as contained in the resolution of the Managing Committee held on 11.6.81.
This was passed by the majority of the members present, the President Justice Shri R.K. Banerjee dissenting. "
On June 29, 1981, the Director of the Zoo wrote to the Secretary of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department stating his objections to the Proposal to lease the land for construction of a hotel.
He stated, 248 "It appears that a total of four acres of Begumbari land is proposed to be taken for hotel construction.
It may be mentioned that this four acres of land proposed to be taken is the only area available there and it is presently covered by structures of hospital buildings, Research Laboratory, Operation Theatre, Segregation Wards, Quarantine areas, post mortem room, burial ground for dead animals.
In addition there are flower nursery, dumping ground and fodder cultivation area.
It is not at all possible to carve out from this four acres of land without disturbing these structures and services nor it is true that adequate space can be made available in this site for these essential services.
It may also be stated in this connection that the Zoo cannot be run for a single day without these essential services, i.e. (i) burial ground for dead animals, a number of which die of infectious and commu nicable diseases, (2) quarantine area for keeping animals coming to the Zoo, at least for 15 days before being shifted to the Zoo proper, (3) isolation wards away from Zoo Hospital and quarantine area for treatment of animals suffering from infectious and conta gious diseases.
(4) post mortem room for carrying out p.m. findings, (5) dumping ground for dumping huge garbages coming out of the Zoo daily, (6) fodder cultivation area for growing fodder for the harbivorous animals and (7) pathological laboratory for carrying pathological tests of animals and birds.
"As per clause 11 of the Alipore Zoological Garden (Management) Rules, 1957, the disposal of properties and funds are vested in the Managing Committee of he Garden.
The relevant clause of the rule reads as below: "The Managing Committee shall have custody and disposal of the property and funds of the Gardens and shall be responsible for proper maintenance. "
Presumably as a consequence of the letter from the Director of the Zoo there was a note by the Secretary, Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department suggest ing the postponement of the implementation of the Cabinet decision till the necessary facilities then available at Begumbari land were shifted to other land of the same extent within a reasonable distance from the Zoological Garden, as 249 these facilities were originally linked with the Zoo.
He pointed out that the Metropolitan Development Department had not consulted the Animal Husbandry Department before the Cabinet note was prepared and circulated.
So the practical problems of the Zoo did not receive detailed consideration earlier.
The note also pointed out that immediate transfer of the four acre plot of land would mean discontinuance of existing hospital facilities, research laboratory, operation theatre, segregation wards, quarantine facilities etc.
A reference was also made to the report of Public Undertakings Committee.
Meanwhile negotiations with Taj Group proceeded apace.
The WEBCON submitted further reports.
Taj Group suggested further modifications.
On September 9, 1981 a detailed memorandum was prepared for cabinet discussion.
Two alterna tive financial proposals were set out.
A reference was made to the Committee of Secretaries who negotiated with the Taj Group of Hotels.
Note was taken of the suggestion of the Negotiation Committee that the overall development plan for the environmental beautification, widening of approach roads, landscaping of Tolley 's Nullah were responsibilities of the State Government and estimated to cost Rs.
2 crores but that it was expected to be of considerable public bene fit.
Stress was laid on the direct and indirect economic activities which would be generated by the establishment of a Five Star Hotel.
Reference was also made to the report of WEBCON and it was noted that the projected profitability of the ventur to the Government was expected to be high.
It was also mentioned that the Ministers, Incharge of Tourism, Animal Husbandry, Land Revenue and Finance had seen the note and agreed to it.
On September 10, 1981 the Cabinet took the final decision to grant a ninety nine years lease of the Four acres of Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels.
On September 28, 1981 the Government of West Bengal officially conveyed its acceptance of the proposal of the Taj Group of Hotels for the construction of a Five Star Hotel.
The terms and conditions of the lease were set out.
On January 7, 1982, there was a joint meeting of the Establishment and Finance sub committees of the Zoo and it was decided to recommend to the Committee of management that the demarcated area of four acres may be relinquished in favour of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department subject to the requirement that the Zoo will continue to get the services and facilities in the existing structures until they were reconstructed on the adjacent land.
On January 11, 1982 the Managing Committee endorsed the view of the sub committees and this was communicated to the Government.
On January 15, 1982, the Government of West Bengal wrote to the Land Acqui sition Officer, with 250 copies to the Taj Group of Hotels, directing the Land Acqui sition Officer to give possession of the land to the Taj Group of Hotels subject to their later executing a proper long term lease.
It was mentioned in the letter that the construction of the hotel should not be started till the lease deed was executed and registered.
It was further expressly stipulated as follows: "The Alipur Zoological Garden will continue to get the services and facilities from the existing essential structures which fall within the demarcated in the annexed sketch map till such time when these essential struc tures i.e. hospital and operation theatre are reconstructed on the adjacent land occupied by the Zoological Garden.
A copy of the sketch map is enclosed for ready reference.
The India Hotels Co. Ltd. will find out in consultation with and with the concurrence of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department of this Government and the authorities of the Alipore Zoological Garden the period of time required for reconstruction of the essential structures standing on the land proposed to be leased out to the said company.
It will also let this department have in consultation with and with the concurrence of the Animal Hus bandry and Veterinary Services Department of this Government and the Alipore Zoological Garden a plan and estimate for reconstruction of the aforesaid essential structures on the land adjacent to the land proposed to be leased out, so that all these points are incorporated in the deed of lease between the said company and the State Government in this Department for the said land measuring four acres.
"As agreed by the said company during the various meetings its representatives had with various departments of this Government, the company will either place the necessary fund in the hands of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department or the Zoo Garden authorities as the case may be, for reconstruction of the aforesaid essential structures or reconstruction the aforesaid essential structures under its own supervision to the satisfaction of the the Zoo Garden authorities or Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department as the case may be, such funds will in either case be advanced or deemed to be advanced by the Company without interest to 251 be adjusted against dues of the State Govern ment in accordance with the terms and condi tions of the lease. "
It is to be noted here that though the stipulation was that the cost of new construction was to be initially met by Taj Group of Hotels and later to be adjusted against the rent payable by Taj Group, the Taj Group later agreed to waive such reimbursement.
We are told that a total sum of Rs.
30 lakhs has now been spent by Taj Group of Hotels in connection with the reconstruction.
We are also told that an extent of 288 square meters out of the plot given to the Taj Group was carved out and given back for accommodating part of the reconstructed structures.
Pursuant to the letter dated January 15, 1982 possession was given to Taj Group on January 16, 1982.
Thereafter an expert Committee was consti tuted to supervise the construction Of alternative facili ties.
At that stage the writ petition out of which the present appeal arises was filed on February 26, 1982.
Ini tially the relief sought was primarily to restrain the Zoo authorities from giving effect to the two resolutions dated January 7, 1982 and January 11, 1982 to hand over the four acres to the Animal Husbandry Department of the Government.
Subsequent to the filing of the Writ Petition, a lease deed was executed by the Taj Group of Hotels in favour of the Government.
The writ petition was therefore, amended and a prayer for cancellation of the lease deed was added.
First a learned Single Judge dismissed the Writ Petition.
On appeal, a Division Bench of the High Court confirmed the judgment of the learned Single Judge.
The original petitioners are now before us having obtained special leave under article 136 of the Constitution.
Before adverting to the submission of the learned coun sel, it is necessary, at this juncture, to refer to certain correspondence.
On April 23, 1982, Late Smt.
