vil Appeal No.
10761077 of 1987.
From the Judgment and Order dated 17.8.1985 of the Allahabad High Court in C.M.
Writ No.
6849 of 1984.
K. Parasaran, B. Datta, P.P.
Rao, K.L.
Hathi, Anil Nauriya, S.R.
Aggarwal, Y. Ramachandran, U.J.
Rana, R.P.
Srivastava, Hem 188 ant Sharma, P. Parmeshwaran, Ms. Sushma Suri and C.V. Subba Rao for the Appellants.
M.K.
Ramamurthy, C.S.
Vaidyanathan, section Ravindra Bhatt, Mohan, S.R.
Setia and Probir Choudhary for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
The question involved in these appeals by special leave which are filed against the judgment dated August 17, 1985 of the High Court of Allahabad in Civil Miscellaneous Writ No.
6849 of 1984 relates to the constitu tional validity of regulation 19(2) of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Regulations, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as 'the (Staff) Regulations, 1960 '), as amended on 21.1.
1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as 'the Corporation ') which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may, if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so, direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months ' notice or salary in lieu thereof.
Prior to January,.
1955 there were more than 200 insur ers carrying on life insurance business in India.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers, with a few exceptions, were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders, the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
Pursuant to the said decision, the President of India promulgated the Life Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordi nance, 1956 on January 19, 1956 providing for the vesting of the management of the life insurance business (which was called the controlled business under the Ordinance) which was being carried on by any insurer in India on that day in the Central Government and providing for its management.
On the passing of the said Ordinance the management of the controlled business of all the insurers in India thus vested in the Central Government and pending the appointment of the custodians for the controlled business of any insurer the person in charge of the management of such business immedi ately before the passing of the Ordinance was required to be in charge of the management of the business for and on behalf of the Central Government.
The Ordinance contained detailed provisions for the carrying on of the life insur ance business by 189 the Government for the time being.
The Ordinance was replaced by the which was published on 21st of March, 1956.
The said Act was followed by the (Act 31 of 1956) (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act ') which was published in the Gazette on 18th June, 1956.
The Act, howev er, came into force on 1st July, 1956.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
The Corporation was accordingly established on 1st September, 1956.
Under the Act the expression 'appointed day ' is de fined as the date on which the Corporation is established.
The appointed day for the purposes of the Act is, therefore, September 1.
1956.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers, the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment, stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
When the Corporation thus came into existence it had no employees of its own to carry on the vast business of the large number of insurers which had been taken over by it.
It, therefore, became necessary to transfer the services of the existing employees of the insurers to the Corporation because without the services of those employees it was almost impossible for the Corporation to run the life insur ance business in India which involved management of the various offices situated in different parts of India, serv icing of lakhs of insurance policies, the administration of the assets taken over from the insurers and several other activities connected with the life insurance business.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
In order to meet the above need section 11 of the Act came to be enacted.
Section 11 of the Act originally stood as follows: "11.
Transfer of service of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation (1) Every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with his controlled business immediately before the appointed day shall, on and from the appointed day, become an employee of the Corporation, and shall hold his office therein by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privi leges as to pen 190 sion and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if this Act had not been passed, and shall continue to do so unless and until his employ ment in the Corporation is terminated or until his remuneration, terms and conditions are duly altered by the Corporation: Provided that nothing contained in this sub section shall apply to any such employee who has, by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to the ap pointed day, intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
(2) Notwithstanding anything con tained in sub section (1) or in any contract of service, the Central Government may, for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in it or for the purpose of reducing the remuner ation payable to employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyhold ers a reduction is called for, alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thinks fit; and if the alteration is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months ' remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
Explanation: The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension, gratuity, provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
(3) If any question arises as to whether any person was a whole time employee of an insurer or as to whether any employee was employed wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business of an insurer immediately before the appointed day the question shall be referred to the Central Government whose decision shall be final.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the (14 of 1947), or in any other 191 law for the time being in force, the transfer of the serv ices of any employee of an insurer to the Corporation shall not entitle any such employee to any compensation under that Act or other law, and no such claim shall be entertained by any Court, tribunal or other authority. "
Sub section (1) of section 11 of the Act provided that every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in the Corpora tion and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business immediately before the appointed day, i.e., September 1, 1956, would on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corpora tion, and would hold his office therein by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and condi tions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if the Act had not been passed, and would continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation was terminated and until his remunera tion, terms and conditions were duly altered by the Corpora tion.
The proviso to that sub section provided that nothing contained in sub section (1) of section 11 of the Act would apply to any such employee who had by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to September 1, 1956 intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
The whole time employees of the erstwhile insurers whose services were thus transferred to the Corpo ration are hereinafter referred to as 'the transferred employees ' of the Corporation.
As mentioned earlier, there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27,000 whole time employees working in them.
The conditions of service of these transferred employ ees of the Corporation whose services were transferred to the Corporation under section 11(1) of the Act were not uniform.
It was naturally difficult to continue after the establishment of the Corporation in the cases of all the transferred employees, the conditions of service enjoyed by them when they were in the employment of the former insur ers.
The conditions governing the retirement of those offi cials with which we are concerned in these appeals were also diverse and different.
In some cases the age of retirement had been fixed at 55 years, in some at 58 years and in some others at 60 years.
In many cases the insurers had permitted their employees to continue in their service even beyond 60 years depending upon their efficiency and physical capacity.
The conditions of service of employees and in particular the terms of remuneration prevalent in some of the former 192 insurance organisations were also disadvantageous to the policyholders.
It, therefore became necessary to bring about uniformity in the conditions of service of the transferred employees.
Parliament therefore, enacted sub section (2) of section 11 of the Act which provided that notwithstanding anything contained in sub section (1) of section 11 or in any contract of service, the Central Government might for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in it or for the purposes of reducing the remu neration payable to those employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyholders a reduc tion was called for, alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thought fit and if the alteration was not acceptable to any employee the Corporation might terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months ' remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provided for a shorter notice of termination.
Doubts arose as regards the meaning of sub section (2) of section of the Act.
In Christopher Pimenta and Others vs Life Insurance Corporation of India, the High Court of Bombay opined that under section 11(2) of the Act the Central Government could alter the terms and conditions of service of the employees only as to the remuneration and that the said sub section had no reference to the other terms and conditions of the service.
The above decision of the Bombay High Court was delivered on 16.4.1957.
It is stated that there were cases pending in other courts also questioning the scope and ambit of sub section (2) of sec tion 11 of the Act as it stood originally.
Hence in order to remove all doubts the President of India promulgated an ordinance (which was replaced by Act 17/1957) substituting a new sub section in the place of the original sub section (2) of section II of the Act making it more comprehensive and thus enabling the Central Government to alter suitably all conditions of service of the transferred employees.
The new sub section (2) of section 11 of the Act was further modi fied by Act 36 of 1957.
Thereafter sub section (2) of sec tion 11 of the Act read as follows: "(2) Where the Central Government is satisfied that for the purpose of securing uniformity in the scales of remuner ation and the other terms and conditions of service applica ble to employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to, and vested in the Corporation, it is necessary so to do, or that, in the interest of the Corpora tion and its policy holders, a reduction in the remuneration payable, or a revision of the other terms and 193 conditions of service applicable, to employees or any class of them is called for, the Central Government may, notwith standing anything contained in sub section (1), or in the , or in any other law for the time being in force, or in any award, settlement or agree ment for the time being in force, alter (whether by way of reduction or otherwise) the remuneration and the other terms and conditions of service to such extent and in such manner as it thinks fit, and if the alteration.
is not acceptable to any employee, the Corporation may terminate his employ ment by giving him compensation equivalent to three months ' remuneration unless the contract of service with such em ployee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employee under this sub section shall be in addition to, and shall not affect, any pension, gratuity, provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service. "
Section 49(1) of the Act conferred powers on the Corpo ration to make with the previous approval of the Central Government regulations not inconsistent with the Act and the rules made thereunder.
It provided for making regulations to provide for all matters for which provision was expedient for the purposes of giving effect to the provisions of the Act.
Clause (b) of sub section (2) of section 49 of the Act in particular conferred power on the Corporation to make regulations as regards the method of recruitment of employ ees and agents of the Corporation and the terms and condi tions of such employees or agents.
It was felt that clause (b) of section 49(2) of the Act was not in terms applicable to the transferred employees who became the employees of the Corporation under sub section (1) of section 11 of the Act but only referred to the employees and agents of the Corpo ration who were employed after the Corporation was estab lished, that is, after 1st September 1956.
To remove the above doubt by Act 17 of 1957 section 49 of the Act was amended by introducing clause (bb) in sub section (2) of section 49 of the Act which expressly conferred power on the Corporation to make regulations with the previous approval of the Central Government as regards 'the terms and condi tions of service of persons who have become employees of the Corporation under sub section (1) of section 11 '.
The above clause was introduced into the Act with retrospective effect along with the new sub 194 section (2) of section 11 of the Act.
It is this to be seen that the conditions of service of the transferred employees were to be regulated by the provisions of the Act, by an order made by the Central Government under section 11(2) of the Act and the regulations made under clause (bb) of sec tion 49(2) of the Act.
Even before clause (bb) was actually introduced into the Act with retrospective effect by Act 17 of 1957 the Corporation had promulgated the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Regulations, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as 'the (Staff) Regulations, 1956 ').
Under regulation 21 of the (Staff) Regulations, 1956 provision was made regarding superannuation and retirement of the employ ees of the Corporation.
Regulation 21 reads as follows: "21.
An employee shall retire at fifty five years of age provided that the appointing authority may at its discretion extend the service every year upto 60 years of age.
Provided, however, that in respect of some of the employees of insurers who are allowed to continue in service beyond age 60 because of the terms and conditions of employ ment having not 'been favourable in the past, the Executive Committee may at its discretion extend their service every year upto age 65.
Provided further that during the three years, beginning from 1st September, 1956, the Executive Committee may, at its discretion, extend the service of a class I employee, who has completed sixty years of age for such period as may be specified but not exceeding one year at a time if such extension is considered necessary in the inter est of the Corporation.
Explanation Notwithstanding anything contained in this Regulation, where an employee has privilege leave earned but not availed of as on the date of retirement as prescribed in the above Regulation he may be permitted to avail of the leave and in that case the employee will be deemed to retire from service at the expiry of the leave. "
The above regulation fixed the age of retirement of an employee at 55 years while empowering the authority to extend the service of an employee, at its discretion, every year upto 60 years of age.
The first proviso to regulation 21 of the (Staff) Regulations, 1956, however, 195 authorised the Corporation to allow some of the employees of insurers who were allowed to continue in service beyond the age of 60 years for the reasons mentioned therein.
The above regulation thus made a distinction between an employee who entered the service of the Corporation after it was estab lished, i.e., after 1st September, 1956 and the transferred employees insofar as the age of retirement was concerned.
Pursuant to the power conferred on it under sub section (2) of section 11 of the Act the Central Government issued an order on 1.6.1957 called the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Alteration of Remuneration and other Terms & Conditions of Service of Employees) Order, 1957 which came into force retrospectively from 1st September, 1956.
This order is called the 'standardisation order '.
This Order applied to all transferred employees who had become employ ees of the Corporation under section 11(1) of the Act and who were in supervisory, clerical and subordinate grades (now classified as Class III and Class IV employees) of the erstwhile insurers on 31st August, 1956.
Clause 13 of the above Order, which related to the age of superannuation read as follows: "13.
Retirement: The normal age of retirement shall be 60.
But the Corporation may require any employee who has attained the age of 55 to retire if his efficiency is found to have been impaired. "
Clause 13 of the above Order, therefore, modified regu lation 21 of the (Staff) Regulations, 1956 to the extent indicated therein with effect from the commencement of the Corporation.
