From the Judgment and Order dated 6.11.85 of the Allahabad .RM60 PG NO 290 PG NO 291 High Court in W.P.
This appeal by special leave is from a judgment of the High Court of Allahabad dated November 6, 1985 passed in Civil Misc.
Writ Petition No.
The appeal raises a question of considerable importance.
The question is whether it is permissible to have two pay scales in the same cadre for persons having same duties and having same responsibilities.
The High Court has answered the question in the negative.
It is said that it would be violative of the Constitutional right of "equal pay for equal work".
They will be found correctly stated in the judgment under appeal and may briefly be stated thus: Prior to 1965, in the High Court of Allahabad, Bench Secretaries were on a higher pay scale than that of Section Officers.
They were in the pay scale of Rs.
160 320 as against the pay scale of Rs.
120 300 to Section Officers.
The Committee was asked to consider the duties and responsibilities of different categories of posts.
It was required to consider and recommend changes to reduce the number of then existing pay scales.
It was also asked to recommend as far as possible equal emoluments for identical duties and responsibilities.
The Committee recommended for them a pay scale slightly lower than that of Section Officers.
150 350 was recommended for Bench Secretaries as against Rs.200 400 for Section Officers.
The State Government accepted the recommendations.
Being dissatisfied with the down grading, the Bench Secretaries made representation to the Government.
They demanded that they should at least be put at par with Section Officers if not on higher scale.
The High Court supported their case but half heartedly.
The High Court suggested "that in view of financial exigencies the Government may grant for the time being pay scale to 10 PG NO 292 Bench Secretaries as admissible to Section Officers. "
The report did not accept the claim of Bench Secretaries for giving them pay scale equal to Section Officers or Private Secretaries.
The following remarks of the Pay Commission would be pertinent: "9 Bench Secretaries (Sakna Suchiv) A memorandum from the Bench Secretaries given to us states that the post which are at present in the scale of Rs.
100 450 are of a great responsibility for which experience and special qualifications are required.
They have claimed that their duties are equivalent to Private Secretaries of Hon 'ble Judges and have demanded the same pay scale which is given to Private Secretaries and the Section Officers.
It is not necessary to emphasise that in comparison to Bench Secretaries, the Section Officers of the secretariat has to bear more responsibilities in their Section and have to control over its subordinates.
Section Officers have to prepare a lengthy and original notes in complicated and important matters.
Therefore, the responsibilities of the two posts cannot be said to be equal.
the pay scale recommended by the Pay Rationalisation Committee, the nature of duties and responsibilities and the fact that every Hon 'ble Judge will have one Private Secretary in the scale of Rs.500 1,000 we feel that the Bench Secretaries cannot be given the same scale of pay which is being given to Superintendents or the Section Officers.
Therefore, we have recommended for them a pay scale of Rs.400 15 475 20 575 25 750. "
It will be seen that the Pay Commission refused to equate Bench Secretaries with Section Officers in view of their differential duties.
It was found that the nature PG NO 293 of work of Section Officers was quite different and more onerous than that of Bench Secretaries.
Section Officers have to bear more responsibilities in their Sections.
The Commission, therefore, recommended Rs.400 750 for Bench Secretaries and Rs.500 1,000 to Section Officers.
The Government appears to have received several such representations against the report of Ali Zahir Commission.
To consider all such grievances.
a Committee called the "Anomalies Committee was constituted.
As the name itself suggests, the Committee was required to examine and remove anomalies in the recommendations of Pay Commission.
So far as Bench Secretaries are concerned, the Committee suggested: "(1) For this post the recommendations made by the Pay Commission need not have any amendments.
(2) It should be appropriate for the Bench Secre taries to accept 10 promotional posts in the pay scale of Rs.500 1,000 as recommended by the Pay Commission. "
The Anomalies Committee also thus rejected the claim of Bench Secretaries for placing them at par with Section Officers.
It however, suggested that ten posts of Bench Secretaries should be upgraded and placed in the pay scale of Rs.500 1,000 The Government accepted that recommendation and issued an order dated July 2,1976 The order inter alia states: Judicial (High Court) Section, Lucknow dated 2nd July, 1976.
Sub: Implementation of decision and proposals of Sub Committee of the Cabinet constituted to consider the anomalies pointed out in the pay scales recommended by the U.P.
Pay Commission ( 1971 73) and its way of removal and other connected matters PG NO 294 Sir, In continuation of office memorandum No.
Name Pay No.
of Pay No.
Of Scale Permanent Temporary Posts Scale Post Post Posts in higher scale 1.
The basic pay in the pay scale mentioned in aforesaid column 7 of the concerned employee will be fixed according to the guiding principles of para 4 under fundamental rule 22 of the Financial Handbook Part II Volume 2 4 and the appointments in the pay scale of Rs.500 1000 will be made according to seniority subject to unfit.
In this connection, I have also been directed to say that the nomenclature of posts of 10 Bench Secretaries appearing in column 5 of the said table shall be Bench Secretaries Grade I and the nomenclature of rest Bench Secretaries of equal pay scale will be Bench Secretaries Grade II and the posts of Bench Secretaries Grade I and Grade II will be of the same duties and responsibilities.
The High Court as usual supported their claim, but the Government did not.
In order to give effect to the said Government order the Chief Justice framed rules called the Allahabad High Court Officers and Staff (Conditions of Service and Conduct) Rules, 1976 ("The Rules ).
