Civil Appeal No.
From the Judgment and Order dated 9.10.1987 of t he Central Administrative Tribunal Chandigarh in Appln.
WITH (SLP (Civil) No.
Mahajan, Mrs. Indu Goswami, C.V. Subba Rao, P. Parmeshwaran for the Appellant in C.A.
Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP (Civil) N o.
Ashri and Mahabir Singh for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K. JAGANNATHA SHETTY, J.
The civil appeal, by speci al leave, and the connected SLP raise an important issue as to the power of the Central Administration Tribun al ("Tribunal") to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded by the competent authority to a Government servant in discipl i nary proceedings.
It was alleged that he maSte r minded and prepared the pay roll pertaining to 'T ' Token of Central Survey Division, Sundernagar for the month of M ay 1969 and entered the name of one Shri Ashok Kumar, Token N o.
59 T at serial No.
10 on page 2 of the relevant pay roll.
He made this entry with ulterior motive to withdraw the pay of Ashok Kumar for the month of May 1969, even though Ash ok Kumar was not working in that Division.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar T.No.
59 T with the sign a tures of the issuing officer was also prepared by the r e spondent although it was not his duty to prepare the ident i ty card.
The said fictitious identity card was used by o ne Suraj Singh, cleaner T. No.
210 K of Beggi Tunnelling Div i sion for the purpose of withdrawing the pay of Ashok Kuma r. While Suraj Singh by impersonation was receiving the pay of Ashok Kumar, he was recognised by the Cashier since he kn ew him personally.
There then started an enquiry followed by departmental proceedings against three persons includi ng the respondent herein.
The Personnel Officer of the 23 BSL Project was appointed as Inquiry Officer.
The Inquiry Officer framed charge against the responde nt in the following terms: "That the said Shri Parma Nand, while working as Time Keeper in Time Keeping Sub Division of Beas Sutlej Li nk Project, Sundernagar during the month of May 1969 failed to maintain absolute integrity and devotion to duty in as mu ch as he falsely marked the attendance of Shri Ashok Kuma r, Token No.
59 T in the Pay Roll of Control Survey Divisi on for the month of May 1969, which resulted in fictitio us drawal of Rs.238 90 as pay of the said Shri Ashok Kumar.
He also prepared a bogus identity card in the name of the abo ve Shri Ashok Kumar and initiated it below the signatures of issuing officer and this identity card Was used by Sh ri Suraj Singh, Cleaner (Token No.
210 K), Boggi Tunnelli ng Division, at the time of attempting to receive the pay of Shri Ashok Kumar from the Cashier. "
After a detailed enquiry against the respondent and t wo others, the Inquiry Officer found all the three guilty of the charge framed against each of them.
The report of e n quiry was forwarded to the competent authority who aft er giving an opportunity of being heard dismissed the respon d ent from service.
The other two persons were let off wi th minor punishments of withholding two or three future incr e ments in their pay scales.
The respondent moved the High Court of Himachal Prade sh under Article 226 challenging the findings of Inquiry off i cer as well as the order of dismissal passed by the comp e tent authority.
During the pendency of the writ petition, a Bench of the Central Tribunal at Chandigarh was constitut ed under the Administrative Tribunal Act, 1985.
Consequentl y, the said writ petition stood transferred to the Tribunal by operation of section 29 of that Act.
The Tribunal upon consideration of the matter agre ed with the findings recorded by the Inquiry Officer that t he respondent was the master mind behind the scheme to defra ud the project.
The Tribunal observed: "Since the applicant had.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
In view of the foregoing, it cannot be termed th at the finding returned by the Inquiry Officer is without a ny evidence. "
It was also observed that there was no denial of a reasonable opportunity for the respondent to set up prop er defence.
After reaching this conclusion, the Tribunal pr o ceeded to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded to t he respondent.
This is how the Tribunal dealt with that que s tion: "Lastly, it was argued on behalf of the applicant that t he punishment awarded to him is disproportionate to the gravi ty of the charge proved against him and is in stark contrast to the punishment awarded to his other three colleagues in whose cases, only future increments were stopped, the max i mum being for three years in respect of Shri Sain Ditt a, Clerk.
The finding regarding the applicant being t he master mind behind the attempt to defraud the Project a p pears to have weighed.
with the disciplinary authority whi le dismissing the applicant from service.
An appreciation of the evidence, as done in the preceding pages, would sh ow that the applicant had entered the name of Shri Ashok Kum ar in the pay roll for May 1969 and so far as other eviden ce against him is concerned, it is mostly of a circumstanti al nature.
There is no direct or expert evidence that it was he who had marked the attendance of Shri Ashok Kumar in the p ay roll for May 1969 or that it was he who had initiated t he identity card.
The evidence against him is circumstantial in as much as the pay roll was under his custody and he cou ld have access to the identity cards.
