: Criminal Appeal No.
8 18 of 1979.
From the Judgment & Order dated the 27.10.1979 of the Madras High Court in Crl.
A.
No.
4 of 1977.
A.S. Nambiar and K.R.
Nambiar for the Appellant.
V. Krishnamurthy for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by FATHIMA BEEVI, J.
This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 27.10.1979 of the High Court of Madras con firming the conviction of the appellant under section 161, I .P.C.
and under section 336 5(2) read with section 5(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
The appellant had been sentenced to undergo R.I. for 15 months under section 5(2) read with section 5(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act with no separate sen tence under section 161 I.P.C.
The brief facts of the case are as under.
The appellant, Sunderamoorthy was an Accountant cum Headclerk in the Tamil Nadu Forest Training School at Vaigai Dam.
He took charge of the office on 6.10.1975 and had been residing in a house opposite the training school.
PW 3, the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1, Venkataswamy, the canteen contractor, as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
This was on the basis of a complaint made by the appellant that the food served in the canteen was substand ard.
The appellant had taken food in the canteen for two days and being dissatisfied discontinued the practice before the notice was issued.
The prosecution case is that the accused thereafter sent for PW 1, informed him that he would help him in restoring the licence and demanded a bribe of Rs.
100.
On 21.10.1975, the appellant is stated to have pressed the demand to PW 1.
The latter made a complaint to PW 6 who thereupon arranged a trap.
As instructed, PW 1 was ready with ten rupees currency notes.
PW 6 after drawing up a mahazar in the presence of PW 2, Jaganathan, Assistant of the Office of the Special Tehsildar, Usilampatti directed PW 1 to give the notes to the appellant.
PW 1 handed over the money to the appellant who received the same.
When PW 1 emerged, PW 6 along with PW 2 confronted the appellant.
The appellant produced the currency notes.
PW 6 conducted the phenolphthalein test with reference to the fingers of the appellant.
The test was positive, the currency notes were seized and the appellant arrested.
PW 3, the Principal produced the concerned file relating to show cause notice, from the house of the appellant on the same day.
Finally, the appellant was chargesheeted.
At the trial, the prosecution witnesses supported the case.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 22.10.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant was not challenged.
The plea of the appellant was that PW 1 had returned the amount due to him and there had been no demand for a bribe as there had been no occasion for doing so.
The Trial Court accepted the prosecution evidence, rejected the plea of the appellant and recorded the conviction.
