From the Judgment and Order dated 17.6.1977 of the Madras High Court in O.S.A.
Sharma, T.K.
A very interesting question comes up for consideration in this appeal.
The property, which is the subject matter of the present dispute, originally formed part of an extent of land situat ed on Mount Road, Madras, bearing door Nos.
It belonged to several co owners.
These co owners had leased out the properties under two lease deeds in favour of M/s.
India Automobiles, which was then the sole proprietary concern of one of them selves, Ganshyamdas Girdhardas (G.G.
1947 and related to Door No.
The rent for the premises was Rs.
The second lease deed (Ext.
1947 relating to Door No.
3 (Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint) covered an area of 8700 sq.
The rent as per lease deed was Rs.200 per month.
On 30.7.1953, all the co owners of the property (includ ing G.G.)
In 1956, the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) stepped into the shoes of these two insurance companies and became the owner of the property.
On 20.7.65, the LIC moved two applications (being HRC Nos.
3310 and 3311 of 1965) in the court of the Rent Con troller (Sri A. Varadarajan who later became a Judge of the this Court) for fixation of a "fair rent" for each of the premises.
The fair rent claimed was computed at Rs.2,399.03 per month in respect of item No.
1 as against the rent of Rs.
150 p.m. fixed under the lease deed.
In respect of item 2 the fair rent claimed was Rs.3266.50 as against Rs.200 p.m. payable under the lease deed.
and his sons) filed their objections to the above applications.
They claimed that, under both the lease deeds, what had been leased out to them was only a vacant land and that the superstructure had been built by them.
They claimed, there fore, that they were entitled to relief under the Madras 550 City Tenants ' Protection Act and that the Rent Controller Court had no jurisdiction to fix a fair rent.
The Rent Controller accepted the .above argument so far as item was concerned.
So far as item 2 was concerned, it appears that, at the time of the hearing, it was conceded before the Rent Controller that the respondents were tenants of the entire properties covered by the lease deed and that they had not constructed any of the premises thereupon.
In view of this the Rent Controller dismissed H.R.C.
3310/ 65 relating to item No.
3311/65, fixed the fair rent in respect of item No.
2 at Rs.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 9.3.
There were appeals to the Court of Small Causes.
In respect of item No.
534/66, the Court, on a perusal of the sale deed dated 30.7.53 filed by the LIC before it, came to the conclusion that the buildings on the land leased under exhibit P 1 had also been conveyed to the LIC and that the LIC was entitled to seek fixation of fair rent in respect of this premises also.
The fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller at Rs.994 p.m. was upheld.
The order of the Rent Controller in respect of item 2 was also upheld.
It may be mentioned here that, even in certain earlier proceedings for fixation of fair rent and eviction (H.R.C.
2557/64), it had been held by the Rent Controller that item No.
2) belonged to the LIC but his order of eviction had been set aside by the appellate court on some other ground.
In the circumstances, the Court of Small Causes, in the appeals now being referred to (H.RA.
534/66), did not treat the earlier decision as res judicata but came independently to the same conclusion that item No.
1 belonged to the LIC.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20.11.1968.
After the Civil Revision Petitions by the tenant were dismissed, the LIC filed C.S.
64/1969 on the original side of the Madras High Court against the tenants for recovery of arrears of rent on the basis of the fair rents fixed, which were computed at Rs.98,250.97 in respect of the two items of property.
Further interest at the rate of 12% thereon from date of plaint to the date of decree and at 6% thereafter till the date of realisation was also claimed.
It may be mentioned here that the tenant filed C.S.
87 of 1972 claiming protection under the Madras City Tenants ' Protection Act but this suit and further appeals therefrom have been dismissed.
87 of 72 by a common judgment dated 23.10.1972), the contention urged on behalf of the tenants was that, since the subject matter of the lease under exhibit P 1 was only a vacant site, the Rent Controller had no juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect thereof and that, therefore, the claim in the suit for arrears of rent, based on the Rent Controller 's order in respect of the premises covered by exhibit P 1 had to fail.
It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not, in law, create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
After referring to the terms of the sale deed (exhibit P 3), the superstructure constructed on the land was held to have been conveyed to the vendee under the sale deed dated 30 7.
The Rent Controller was, therefore, held to have had juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect of the premises.
It was, therefore, held that the plantiff 's claim in the suit should succeed.
The suit was decreed accordingly.
The tenants filed an appeal being O.S.A.
The Appellate Bench confirmed the decree in respect of item No.
1 was concerned, the Appellate Bench vacated the decree passed by the trial court.
Having regard to the express recitals in exhibit P 3, the Appellate Bench held that it was impossible to hold that the build ings, which admittedly belonged to the defendants and had been constructed by them on the vacant land taken on lease under exhibit P 1, ever were or could be the subject matter of the sale under exhibit p 3.
In view of this finding, it was held that the Rent Controller had no jurisdiction to entertain the application for fixation of fair rent in respect of the property which was only a vacant piece of land.
In conse quence, it was held, the LIC could not maintain the suit for recovery of rent based on the order made by the statutory tribunal under the Rent Control Act and claim the difference between the so called fair rent and the contract rent.
The claim of the LIC for recovery of Rs.39,224.71, as arrears of rent, in respect of item 1 was thus held to be not maintain able.
The present appeal, by Special Leave granted on 3.7.
1979, is from the order of the Division Bench rejecting the appellant 's claim for arrears of rent in respect of item No.
1 of the property set out in Schedule A to the plaint based on the difference between the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller and the rent payable therefore under exhibit P 1.
552 The questions to be decided in this appeal, on the above facts, boil down to these: (1) Was the LIC the vendee only of a vacant piece of land with no title to the buildings standing on the site in item 17 (2) It is open for the tenants to contend that the order of the Court of Small Causes in the earlier rent control proceedings deciding to the contrary and fixing the fair rent of item 1 at Rs.994 p.m. should be completely ignored as an order passed totally without jurisdiction, although it has become final as be tween the parties?
The first is that if either question is answered in the negative, the other will not arise for consideration and the appeal will have to be allowed.
The second is that, though the claim in issue before us is only a money claim for arrears of rent, any decision given by us, based, as it will have to be, on the issue whether the LIC owns the superstructure or not and whether the tenants are the les sees only of vacant land or of both land and buildings, will have repercussions not only on the claim in this suit (which by now has accummulated to more than Rs.3 lakhs) but also on any other proceedings by way of ejectment or otherwise which the LIC may have in contemplation against the tenants.
So far as the first question is concerned, we have no doubt that the Division Bench of the High Court has come to the correct conclusion.
In our view, the conclusion of the learned Single Judge that the lease exhibit P 1, executed by the co owners of the property in favour of one of them, was invalid, was erroneous.
141) and Rye vs Rye, The observations of Lord Denning, extracted by the learned Judges, are quite apposite to the situation in the present case.
Once this objection is out of the way, the question is whether the construction put upon the leased land by the lessees formed part of the 553 property conveyed to the L.I.C.
Sri Parasaran pointed out that they did not and drew our attention to subsequent correspondence between the parties to show that even the L.I.C.
had not claimed at any stage any rent in respect of the superstructures (apart from the contractual rent, which was in respect of the land) and that both parties have all along been proceeding on the footing that the superstructure on item 1 belonged to the lessees.
