Appeal from the judgment and decree dated March 20, 1651, of the Mysore High Court in R.A. No.
This appeal arises from a suit brought by the appellant in the court of the Subordinate Judge, Mysore, as the sole executor of the will alleged to have been executed by one Lakshmamma on August 22, 1945, (exhibit A).
According to the plaint, under the will respondent I was entitled only to a life interest in items I and 2 and that on her death the said items would vest in respondents 2 to 4 and respondent 5 respectively.
Respondents 2 to 4 are the sons of the appellant.
According to the case set out by the appellant in his plaint Annaji lyengar bad made a gift of properties, items 1 and 2, in favour jointly of Lakshmamma and Sadagopalachar under a registered deed of gift on February 16, 1902 (exhibit D).
It was also alleged that the said Annaji lyengar had executed a will On August 31, 1901, (exhibit B2(a)) under which he had bequeathed in favour of Lakshmamma and Sadagopalachar hypo thecation bonds to the extent of Rs.
Alternatively it was alleged by the appellant that even if survivorship did not apply and so her son Narayana lyengar acquired interest to half the share in the properties covered by the gift deed, he had during his lifetime sold away considerable properties of his father and mother much above the value of his half share and in consequence the remaining properties which represent Lakshmamma 's half share became her absolute properties.
Respondent 1 did not admit that the properties subsequently purchased by Sadagopalachar including items 3 to 5 were purchased with any monies bequeathed to him and his wife by Annaji lyengar; according to her, Sadagopalachar had made these purchases with his, own funds.
Respondent 1 's case was that, after the death of his father Sadagopalachar, her husband Narayana lyengar became the absolute owner of all the properties and so Lakshmamma was not competent in law to make a will in respect of any of them.
In regard to the properties subsequently purchased by Sadagopalachar the learned judge said that " in fairness to the parties he would 431 like to hold that various survey numbers in items 3 and 4 had been purchased by Sadagopalachar out of the joint income from the properties bequeathed to him and his wife by Annaji as also from the properties and through income which he got at a partition between himself and his coparCeners ".(Ex.
The purchases made by Narayana Iyengar were held to have been made out of the income of the properties of, his father and of his mother.
The learned judge ' rejected the plaintiffs case that Narayana lyengar had disposed of his properties equivalent to his right under the gift deed of Annaji (exhibit D) and held that he was the owner of the properties which had.
