Criminal Appeal No.
400 of 1979.
From the Judgment and Order dated 27.4.79 of the Madras High Court in Criminal Misc.
P. No.
265 of 1978.
216 Kapil Sibal, B.R.L.
Iyengar, K.V.
Mohan, S.R.
Setia, K.R.
Nambiar and A.K.
Nigam for the Appellant.
A.D. Giri, Solicitor General, K.T.S.
Tulsi, Additional Solicitor General, A.M. Khanwilkar and P. Parmeswaran for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RAY, J. I have had the advantage of deciphering the two draft judgments prepared by my learned brothers Shetty and Verma, JJ.
I agree with the conclusions arrived at by my learned brother Shetty, J.
Yet considering the great impor tance of the questions involved in this matter, I deem it just and proper to consider the same and to express my own views.
Three very important questions fall for decision in this case.
First of all whether a Judge of the Supreme Court or a Judge of a High Court is a public servant within the meaning of Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947.
Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act interprets a public servant as meaning a public servant as defined in section 21 of the Indian Penal Code i.e. Act 45 of 1860.
Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code states that a public servant denotes a person falling under any of the descrip tion mentioned therein: "Third Every Judge including any person empowered by law to discharge, whether by himself or as a member of any body of persons any adjudicarory functions. "
Thus, the definition of a public servant is very wide enough to include Judges of the Supreme Court as well as Judges of the High Court.
Section 77 of the Indian Penal Code provides immunity to the Judges in respect of any act done by a Judge when acting judicially in the exercise of any power which is, or which in good faith he believes to be, given to him by law.
The next question is whether a judge of the Supreme Court or a Judge of High Court including the Chief Justice of the High Court can be prosecuted for having committed the offence of criminal misconduct as referred to in clause (e) of sub section 1 of section 5 of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act, 1947.
Provisions of clause (e) of section 5(1) are as follows: 217 "if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income. "
Therefore, it is clear that a Judge will be liable for committing criminal misconduct within the meaning of clause (e) of sub section (1) of section 5 of the said Act if he has in his possession pecuniary resources or property dis proportionate to his known sources of income for which the public servant (or a Judge as the public servant) cannot satisfactorily account.
Section 6(1)(c) specifically enjoins that no court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under Section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant i.e. the Judge of the High Court includ ing the Chief Justice of the High Court as in the present case, except with the previous sanction under clause (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
So to initiate a proceeding against a Judge of a Supreme Court for criminal misconduct failing under Section 5(1)(e), previous sanction of the authority who is competent to remove a Judge including Chief Justice of the High Court from his office, is imperative.
A Judge of the Supreme Court as well as a Judge of the High Court is a constitutional functionary appointed under Article 124 and under Article 217 of the Constitution re spectively.
Sub article 2 of Article 124 further provides that every Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts in the States as the President may deem necessary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of sixty five years.
It also provides that in the case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of India shall always be consulted.
Article 217 provides that every Judge of a High Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and in the case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court.
Sub article 4 of the said article 124 further enjoins that a Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total member ship of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting has 218 been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Sub article (5) also provides that Parliament may by law regulate the procedure for the presentation of an address and for the investigation and proof of the misbehaviour or incapacity of a Judge under clause (4).
Article 2 18 states that provisions of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 shall apply in relation to a High Court.
On a plain reading of the provisions of sub article 4 of Article 124, a Judge of the Supreme Court can only be re moved on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or inca pacity.
In other words, the President cannot on its own remove a Judge of the Supreme Court unless an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, is passed and presented to him for removal of the Judge on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Therefore, the repository of this power is not in the Presi dent alone but it is exercised after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two third of the members of that House is presented to the President.
Without such an address by each of the House of the Parliament, the President is not empowered under the Constitution to order removal Of a Judge of the Supreme Court from his office.
Article 2 18 lays down that a Judge of the High Court may be removed from his office by the President in the manner provided under clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124.
So viewing the aforesaid constitutional provisions for removal of a Judge for proved misbehaviour or incapacity, it is imperative that each House of the Parlia ment shall make an address to the President after the same is supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority for not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting.
Unless that ad dress is presented to the President in the same session for such removal, the President is not empowered under the Constitution to make the order for removal of the Judge of the Supreme Court of India or of the Judge of the High Court on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Of course, the power of the President to remove a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court is to be 219 exercised by the President in the manner expressly laid down in clause 4 of Article 124.
In the case of Union of India vs Sankalchand, AIR 1977 (SC) 2328 it has been observed by majority of the Constitution Bench that there is no need or justification, in order to uphold or protect the independ ence of the judiciary, for construing Article 222(1) to mean that a Judge cannot be transferred from one High Court to another without his consent.
"The power to transfer a High Court Judge is conferred by the Constitution in public inter est and not for the purpose of providing the executive with a weapon to punish a Judge who does not toe its line or who, for some reason or the other, has fallen from its grace.
The executive possesses no such power under our Constitution and if it can be shownthough we see the difficulties in such showing that a transfer of a High Court Judge is made in a given case for an extraneous reason, the exercise of the power can appropriately be struck down as being vitiated by legal mala fides.
The extraordinary power which the Constitution has conferred on the President by article 222(1) cannot be exercised in a manner which is calculated to defeat or destroy in one stroke the object and purpose of the various provisions conceived with such care to insulate the judiciary from the influence and pressures of the executive.
The power to punish a High Court Judge, if one may so describe it, is to be found only in article 2 18 read with article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitu tion, under which a Judge of the High Court can be removed from his office by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament, supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less then two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
Thus, if the power of the President, who has to act on the advice of the Council of Ministers, to transfer a High Court Judge for reasons not bearing on public interest but arising out of whim, caprice or fancy of the executive or its desire to bend a Judge to its own way of thinking, there is no possibility of any interference with the independence of the judiciary if a Judge is transferred without his consent.
The same view about the independence of the judiciary from the con 220 trol of the executive has been spelt out by the observations of the Constitution Bench of Seven Judges in the case of S.P.
Gupta & Ors.
vs President of India and Ors.
"The concept of independence of judiciary is a noble concept which inspires the Constitutional Scheme and constitute the foundation on which rests the edifice of our democratic polity.
If there is one principle which runs through the entire fabric of the Constitution, it is the principle of the rule of law and under the Constitution, it is the judiciary which is entrusted with the task of keeping every organ of the State within the limits of the law and thereby making the rule of law meaningful and effective.
It is to aid the judiciary in this task that the power of judicial review has been conferred upon the judiciary and it is by exercising this power which constitutes one of the most potent weapons in armoury of the law, that the judi ciary seeks to protect the citizen against violation of his constitutional or legal rights or misuse of abuse of power by the State or its officers.
The judiciary stands between the citizen and the State as a bulwark against executive excesses and misuse or abuse or power by the executive and there it is absolutely essential that the judiciary must be free from executive pressure or influence and this has been secured by the Constitution makers by making elaborate provisions in the Constitution to which detailed reference has been made in the judgments in Sankalchand Sheth 's case (AIR 1977 SC 2326) (supra).
But it is necessary to remind ourselves that the concept of independence of the judiciary is not limited only to independence from execu tive pressure or influence but it is a much wider concept which takes within its sweep independence from many other pressures and prejudices.
It has many dimensions.
namely fearlessness of other power centres economic or political, and freedom from prejudices acquired and nourished by the class of which the Judges belong.
If we may again quote the eloquent words of Justice Krishna Iyer: "Independence of the judiciary is not genuflexion; nor is it opposition to every proposition of Government.
It is neither judiciary made to opposition measure nor Government 's pleasure.
221 The tyceon, the communalist, the parochialist, the faddist, the extremist and radical reactionary lying coiled up and sub consciously shaping judicial menrations are menaces to judicial independence when they are at variance with parts III and IV of the Paramount Parchment".
Judges should be of stern stuff and tough fibre, unbending before power, economic or political, and they must uphold the core principle of the rule of law which says "Be you ever so high, the law is above you. "
This is the principle of independence of the judi ciary which is vital for the establishment of real participatory democracy, maintenance of the rule of law as a dynamic concept and delivery of social justice to the vulnerable sections of the community.
It is this princi ple of independence of the judiciary which we must keep in mind while interpreting the relevant provisions of the Constitution.
The third most crucial question that fails for consider ation in this case is who is the competent authority to remove a Judge either of the, Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office in order to enable that authority to grant sanction for prosecution of the Judge under the provi sions as enjoined by Section 6 of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act, 1947.
Section 6 has been couched in negative terms to the following effect: "No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under Section 16 1 or Section 164 or Section 165 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or under sub section (2) or sub section (3A) of Section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction, .
(c) in the ease of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
In order to launch a prosecution against a Judge either of the Supreme Court or of the High Court or the Chief Jus tice of the High Court previous sanction of the authority competent to remove a Judge from his office is mandatorily required.
The question, therefore, arises who is the author ity competent to grant sanction.
The Judge of the Supreme Court or the Judge of the High Court is appointed under the provisions of Article 124 or under the provisions of Article 217 respec 222 tively.
A Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by the warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Court in the State as the President may deem neces sary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of 65 years.
Similarly, a Judge of the High Court shall be appointed by the President by the warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and in case of an appoint ment of the Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court and shall hold office except in the case of an additional judge till he attains the age of 62 years.
It is, therefore, evident that a Judge of the Supreme Court as well as a Judge of the High Court is a constitutional functionary as has been observed by this Court in the decisions cited hereinbefore and to maintain the independence of the judiciary and to enable the Judge to effectively discharge his duties as a Judge and to maintain the rule of law, even in respect of lis against the Central Government or the State Government.
The Judge is made total ly independent of the control and influence of the executive by mandatorily embodying in article 124 or article 217 that a Judge can only be removed from his office in the manner provided in clause (4) and (5) of article 124.
Thus, a Judge either of the High Court or of the Supreme Court is inde pendent of the control of the executive while deciding cases between the parties including the Central Government and State Government uninfluenced by the State in any manner whatsoever.
It is beyond any pale of doubt that there is no master and servant relationship or employer and employee relationship between a Judge of the High Court and the President of India in whom the executive power of the Union is vested under the provisions of Article 53 of the Consti tution.
The President has not been given the sole power or the exclusive power to remove a Judge either of the Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office though the Presi dent appoints the Judge by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Court in the States as he may deem necessary for that purpose and in case of the appointment of the Judge of the High Court, the President appoints a Judge by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State and in a case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Jus tice, the Chief Justice of the High Court.
The only mode of removal of a Judge from his office on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity is laid down in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124.
It is has been eloquently and vehemently urged on behalf of the appellant that since the Judge of the Supreme Court as well as of the High Court is a constitu tional functionary and 223 there is no employer and employee relationship or master and servant relationship between the Judge and the President of India and for that the Central Government or the State Government there is no authority to remove the Judge from 'his office by the executive except by taking recourse to procedure of impeachment as envisaged in Article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitution of India.
It has been further urged in this connection that if it is assumed that the President has the power to remove a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office it will do away with the independence of the judiciary and will being the judiciary under the control of the executive indirectly in as much as under Article 74 of the Constitution of India, the President while exercising his executive power has to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers with the Prime Minis ter at the Head, as has been held by this Court in Shamsher Singh & Anr.
vs State of Punjab, ; and S.P.
Gupta & Ors.
etc.
vs Union of Inida & Ors.
etc.
, (supra).
It has been, therefore, urged that Section 6(i)(C) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 is not applicable to the case of a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court No prosecution can be launched against a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court under the provisions of the said Act except in the mode envisaged in Article 124, clauses 4 and 5 of the Constitution for removal of the Judge.
The FIR in question, which has been lodged against the appellant should be quashed and set aside Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act denotes a public servant as defined in Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
It has been noticed hereinbefore that the third clause particularly of Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code includes every Judge including any person empowered by law to dis charge whether by himself or as a member of any body of persons any adjudicatory functions.
Therefore a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court comes within the defini tion of public servant and he is liable to be prosecuted under the provisions of 'the Prevention of Corruption Act.
It is farthest from our mind that a Judge of the Supreme Court or that of the High Court will be immune from prosecu tion for criminal offences committed during the tenure of his office under the provisions of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
In these circumstances the only question to be consid ered is who will be the authority or who is the authority to grant sanction for prosecution of a Judge of the High Court under section 6(1)(c) of the said Act.
The Judge as a con stitutional functionary being appointed by the President can only be removed by mandatory procedure provided under Arti cle 124 of the Constitution and in no other manner.
The has been enacted by Parliament to regulate 224 the procedure for the investigation and proof of the misbe haviour or incapacity of a Judge of the Supreme Court under clause (5) of subsection 1 of Article 124 of the Constitu tion.
The Judges (Inquiry) Rules, 1969 have been framed under section 7(4) of the .
The said Act and the Rules made thereunder only provide for removal of a Judge on the ground of proved misbehaviour or inability.
It does not provide for prosecution of a Judge for offences under section 5(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.
It is apropos to mention in this connection that in England, before the full development of ministerial responsibility, impeachment was a weapon enabling the Com mons to call to account ministers appointed by, and respon sible to, the Crown.
As the commons acquired direct control over ministers, there was no need to employ the cumbersome machinery of impeachment and there has been no impeachment since 1805.
As impeachment of political offenders might involve not only deprivation of office but other penalties, the royal prerogative of pardon does not extend to prevent ing impeachment but extends to pardoning punishments in flicted on an impeachment.
In England, offices held during good behaviour may in the event of misconduct be determined by impeachment.
In practice, however, an address to the Crown for the removal of a judge must originate in the House of Commons; the procedure is judicial and the judge is entitled to be heard.
There is no instance of the removal of a judge by this method since the Act of Settlement.
This power to remove by impeachment or address, a person holding office during good behaviour, is an essential counterpart to the independence secured to the holders of high office by making their tenure one of good behaviour instead of at pleasure.
Under article II, section 4, U.S. Constitution, the President, VicePresident and 'all civil officers of the United States can be removed from office on impeachment for, and convic tion of, "Treason, Bribery or other high Crimes and misde meanours".
Since the President of the United States who is the, highest executive authority of the State, an impeach ment has been provided for and in fact, President Johnson was impeached in 1867 for high crimes and misdemeanours.
In 1917, Justice Archibald of the Commerce Court was 'removed from office by impeachment for soliciting for himself and others, favours from railroad companies, some of which were at the time litigants in his court; in 1936 the removal of Judge Wright of the Florida Court for conduct in relation to a receivership Which evoked serious doubts as to this integ rity, although he was acquitted of specific charges, seem to have restored the wider view.
For, in neither case, were the two judges found guilty of an indictable offence.
It has been said that: 225 "As to the Judges of the United States at least lack of 'good behaviour ' and 'high crimes and misdemeanours ' are overlapping if not precisely coincidental concepts."
(Seervai 's Constitutional Law of India, Third Edition, Vol.
II, page 1698 paras 18.8 and 18.9).
It has been urged by the Solicitor General as well as the Additional Solicitor General that the Judges of the High Court cannot be said to be exempted from prosecution in respect of offences provided in the Prevention of Corruption Act.
It has been urged further that under Article 361, the President and the Governor have been given protection from being answerable to any court for the exercise and perform ance of the powers and duties of his office or for any act done or purporting to be done by him in the exercise and performance of those powers and duties.
Clause 2 of the said Article further provides that no criminal proceedings what soever shall be instituted or Continued against the Presi dent, or the Governor of a State, in any court during his term of office.
No such immunity from criminal prosecution has been provided for in the case of a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court.
It has, therefore, been urged that the High Court should ensure modalities for launching prosecution against a Judge under the said Act.
Undoubtedly, respect for the judiciary and its public credibility and dignity has to be maintained in order to ensure respect for the Judges in public and also for the decisions rendered by the judges.
It is, therefore, necessary to evolve some method commensurate with the grant of sanction in cases of serious allegation corruption and acquisition or the posses sion of disproportionate assets which the Judge cannot satisfactorily account for 'or possession of property dispro portionate to the sources of income of the Judge.
If these things are allowed to go unnoticed it will create a serious inroad on the dignity respect, and credibility and integrity of the High Office which a Judge of the Supreme Court and of the High Court occupies resulting in the erotion on the dignity and respect for the high office of the Judges in the estimation of the public.
As has been suggested by my learned Brother Shetty, J. that the President is given the power to appoint the Judges of the Supreme Court as well as of the High Court by warrant under his hand and seal and similarly even after passing of an address by both the Houses of the Parliament in the manner provided in Article 124, clauses (4) and (5) and placed before the President, a Judge cannot be removed from his office unless and order to that effect is passed by the President.
The President, therefore, has the power to appoint as well as to remove a Judge from his office on the ground of 226 proved misbehaviour or incapacity as provided in Article 124 of the Constitution.
The President, therefore, being the authority competent to appoint and to remove a Judge, of course in accordance with the procedure envisaged in Article 124, clauses (4) and (5) of the Constitution, may be deemed to be the authority to grant sanction for prosecution of a Judge under the provisions of Section 6(1)(c) in re spect of the offences provided in section 5(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947.
In order to adequately protect a Judge from frivolous prosecution and unnecessary harassment the President will consult the Chief Justice of India who will consider all the materials placed before him and tender his advice to the President for giving sanction to launch prosecution or for filing FIR against the Judge concerned after being satisfied in the matter.
The President shall act in accordance with advice given by the Chief Justice of India If the Chief Justice of India.
If the chief Justices of opinion that it is not a fit case for grant of sanction for prosecution of the Judge concerned the Presi dent shall not accord sanction to prosecute the Judge;This will save the Judge concerned from unnecessary harassment as weal as from frivolous prosecution against him as suggested by my learned brother Shetty, J. in his judgment.
Similarly in the case of Chief Justice of the Supreme Court the Presi dent shall consult such of the Judges of the Supreme Court as he may deem fit and proper and the President shall act in accordance with the advice given to him by the Judge or Judges of the Supreme Court.
The purpose of grant of previ ous sanction before prosecuting a public servant i.e. a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court is to pro tect the Judge from unnecessary harassment and frivolous prosecution more particularly to save the Judge from the biased prosecution for giving judgment in a case which goes against the Government or its officers though 'based on good reasons and rule of law.
Mention may be made in this connec tion to the decision in C.K.
Daphtary vs O.P.
Gupta, A.I.R.
197 1 SC 1132, wherein it has been observed: "It seems to us that whoever drafted the Impeachment Motion drafted it with a view to bring the facts within the meaning of the express "misbehaviour" in Article 124(4) for he must have realised that to say that a Judge has committed errors, even gross errors, cannot amount to "misbehaviour".
The contention that frivolous prosecution can be launched against a Judge for giving a judgment against the Central Government or any of its Officers is of no avail in as much as such decision does not amount to misbehaviour within the meaning of the Article 124 of the Constitution.
227 It is also necessary to mention in this connection that the appellant resigned his post of Chief Justice when FIR was lodged by the CBI and so he ceased to be a public serv ant on the date of lodging the FIR against him by the CBI.
The scope and applicability of section 6 of the Prevention of Corruption Act came to be considered in the case of R.S.
Nayak vs A.R.
Antulay; , before a Constitution Bench of this Court where it has been observed: "Section 6 bars the Court from taking cogni zance of the offences therein enumerated alleged to have been committed by a public servant except with the previous sanction of the competent authority empowered to grant the requisite sanction .
.
.
Section 6 creates a bar to the court from taking cogni zance of offences therein enumerated except with the previous sanction of the authority set out in clause (a) (b) & (c) of sub sec.
The object underlying such provision Was to save the public servant from the harassment of frivolous or unsubstantiated allegations.
The policy underlying Sec.
6 and similar sections, is that there should not be unneces sary harassment of public servant (C.R.
Bansi vs State of Maharashtra), ; Existence thus of a valid sanction is a pre requisite to the taking of cognizance of the enumerated offences alleged to have been committed by a public servant.
The bar is to the taking of cognizance of offence by the court.
Therefore, when the court is called upon to take cognizance of such offences, it must enquire whether there is a valid sanction to prosecute the public servant for the of fence alleged to have been committed by him as public servant.
Undoubtedly the accused must be a public ' servant when he is alleged to have committed the offence of which he is accused because Sections 161, 164, 165 IPC and Sec.
5(2) of the 1947 Act clearly spell out that the offences therein defined can be committed by a public servant.
If it is con templated to prosecute public servant who has committed such offences, when the court is called upon to take cognizance of the offence, a sanction ought to be available otherwise the court would have no jurisdiction to take cognizance of the offence.
A trial without a valid sanction where one is necessary under section 6 has been held to be a trial without jurisdiction by the court.
(R.R.
Chari vs State of U.P., and S.N.
Bose vs State of Bihar), In Mohd.
Iqbal Ahmed vs State of A.P., it was held that the terminus 228 a quo for a valid sanction is the time when the court is called upon to take cognizance of the offence.
Therefore, when the offence is alleged to have been committed the accused was a public servant but by the time the court is called upon to take cognizance of the offence committed by him as public servant, he has ceased to be public servant, no sanction would be necessary for taking cognizance of the offence against him.
This approach is in accord with the policy underlying Sec.
6 in that a public servant is not to be exposed to harassment of a frivolous or speculative prosecution.
If he has ceased to be a public servant in the meantime, this vital considera tion ceases to exist. "
In the present appeal the appellant ceases to be a public servant as h. resigned from the office.
Therefore at the time of filing the FIR the appellant ceases to be a public servant and so no sanction under Sec.
6(1)(c) of the said act is necessary.
The main plank of the argument regarding sanction is, therefore, non existent.
In these circumstances the judgment and order of the High Court dismissing the application under Secll.
482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is in my considered opinion, wholly in accordance with law and as such the Order of the High Court has to be upheld in any circumstances.
I agree with the conclusion of my learned brother Shetty, J.
The appeal is, therefore, dismissed.
The trial of Criminal Case No.
46/77 filed by the Respondent be proceeded with.
This appeal by certificate under Articles 132(1) and 134(1)(e) of the Constitution has been filed by the former Chief Justice of the Madras High Court against the Full Bench decision of the same High Court refusing to quash the criminal proceedings taken against him.
The appeal raises the questions of singular importance and consequence to Judges of the High Courts and this Apex Court.
The central issue is whether the Judges could be prosecuted for offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 ( 'the Act ').
The background of the case in the barest outline is as follows: The appellant started his life as an Advocate in the High Court of Madras.
He joined the Madras Bar in 1941.
In 1953 he was appointed as Assistant Government Pleader.
In 1959 he became Government Pleader.
He held that post till 20 February 1960 when he was elevated to the Bench as a perma nent Judge of the Madras High Court.
On 229 1 May 1969, he became the Chief Justice of the Madras High Court.
During his tenure as the Judge and Chief Justice he was said to have acquired assets disproportionate to the known source of income.
The complaint in this regard was made to the Delhi Special Police Establishment ("CBI").
On 24 February 1976, the CBI registered a case against him with issuance of a First Information Report which was filed in one of the Courts at New Delhi.
It was alleged in the First Information Report that taking into consideration the sources of income of the appellant as a Judge and Chief Justice of the High Court and the mode and style of his living with the probable expenses required during the period of his Judgeship/Chief Justiceship, it is reasonably be lieved that the appellant cannot satisfactorily account fox the possession of assets which are far disproportion he to his known source of income.
It was further alleged that he has committed offences under Section 5(2) read with clauses (b)(d) and (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act.
On 28 February 1976, a copy of the First Information Report was personally taken by the Investigating Officer to Madras and it was filed before the Court of Special Judge, Madras.
The appel lant on coming to know of these developments proceeded on leave from 9 March 1976 and subsequently retired on 8 April 1976 on attaining the age of superannuation.
The investigation of the case by CBI was however, con tinued with the culmination of filing a final report.
On 15 December 1977, a final report under Section 173(2) of the Code of Criminal 'Procedure (Cr.
P.C.)
was filed against the appellant before the Special Judge, Madras.
The report under Section 173(2) is generally called as the charge sheet, and we would also prefer to term it as the charge sheet.
The charge sheet inter alia states that the appellant after assuming.
office as the Chief Justice of Madras gradually commenced accumulation of disproportionate assets etc.
That for the period between 1 May 1969 to 24 February 1976, he was in possession of the pecuniary resources and property disproportionate by Rs.6.41,416.36 to the known sources of income over the same period.
It was in his own name and in the names of his wife Smt.
Eluthai Ammal and his two sons Shri V. Suresh and Shri V. Bhaskar.
The appellant cannot satisfactorily account for such disproportionate assets.
The appellant has thereby committed the offence of criminal misconduct under clause (e) of Section 5(1) which is punish able under Section 5(2) of the Act.
The particulars of the disproportionate assets and the income of the appellant during the aforesaid period have been fully set out in the charge sheet.
On perusing the charge sheet the learned Special Judge appears to have issued process for appearance of the appellant but the appel 230 lant did not appear there.
He moved the High Court of Madras under Section 482 of the Cr.
P.C.
to quash that criminal proceedings before the High Court he contended that the proceedings initiated against him were unconstitutional, wholly without jurisdiction, illegal and void.
The Full Bench of the High Court by majority view has dismissed his case.
However, in view of the importance of the Constitu tional questions involved in the case the High Court granted certificate for appeal to this Court.
It may be noted that before the High Court every conceivable point was argued.
They are various and varied.
We may briefly refer to those contentions not for the pur pose of examining them, since most of them have not been pressed before us, but only to indicate as to how the appel lant projected his case.
It was inter alia, contended that the Judges of the High Court and Supreme Court shall not be answerable before the ordinary criminal courts but only answerable to Parliament.
The Parliament alone could deal with their misbehaviour under the provisions of Articles 124(4) and (5) read with Articles 217 and 218 of the Consti tution.
The Judge shall hold office until the age of super annuation subject to earlier removal for proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
This protection to Judges will be defeated if they are compelled to stand trial for offence committed while discharging duties of their office even before retire ment.
Even the Parliament or the State Legislatures are not competent to make laws creating offences in matters relating to discharge of Judge 's duties.
Any such law would vitiate the scheme and the federal structure of the Constitution particularly the scheme of Article 124(4) read with Article 2 17 and 2 18.
If the Legislatures are held to have powers to create offence for which Judges could be tried in ordi nary criminal Courts then, it may affect the very independ ence of the Judiciary and the basic structure of the Consti tution.
Though the definition of "public servant" under Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code may include a Judge of the Higher Judiciary, since the Judge is not 'employed in connection with the affairs of the Union or State ', the definition Should be narrowed down only to Judges other man the Judges of the Higher Judiciary.
The jurisdiction of the CBI to register the case against the appellant and to investigate the offence was also questioned.
The issuance of the First Information RepOrt and the subsequent filing of the charge sheet were impeached.
It was alleged that they were actuated by collat eral considerations.
Alternatively, it was claimed that even assuming that all the allegations against the appellant are true, it will not constitute an offence under clause (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act since ingredients of the offence are not present in the case.
The last and 231 perhaps the most important contention urged before the High Court was regarding the necessity to obtain prior sanction from the competent authority for prosecution of the appellant as required under Section 6 of the Act.
And since there was no such sanction obtained the Court has no juris diction to take cognizance of the case.
Mr. Justice Mohan, with whom Mr. Justice Natarajan, (as he then was) joined rejected all the contentions in a well considered judgment.
The views expressed by Mohan, J., on all the issues except on the last one need not be set out here since all those issues have not been raised before us.
On the last aspect relating to the requirement of prior sanction for prosecution of the appellant, the learned Judge, held that since the appellant has retired from serv ice and was no longer a 'public servant ' on the date of filing the charge sheet, the sanction for his prosecution required under Section 6 of the Act is not warranted.
The third Judge Mr. Justice Balasubramanyan in a separate judg ment has concurred with the majority views on most of the questions.
He has however, differed on three points out of which one alone need be mentioned.
The other two have not been supported before us by counsel for the appellant.
The learned Judge has dealt with the ingredients of the offence under clause (e) of Section 5(1) with which the appellant was charged.
While analysing ingredients of the offence, he went on to state that the gist of the offence is not the possession of assets merely.
Nor even the sheer excess of assets over income, but the inability of the public servant in not being able to satisfactorily account for the excess.
He observed that clause (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act places the burden of establishing unsatisfactory accounting squarely on the prosecution.
In order to properly discharge this burden cast by the section, it Would be necessary for the Investigating Officer first of all to call upon the public servant to account for the disproportionate assets.
He must then proceed to record his own finding on the expla nation of the public servant.
He must state whether it is satisfactory or not.
And the offence complained of under clause (e) of Section 5(1) is not made out without such exercise and finding by the Investigating Officer.
The learned Judge, however, was careful enough to modulate his reasoning so that it may be in conformity with the constitu tional protection guaranteed to the accused under Article 20(3) of the Constitution, Article 20(3) provides that no person accused of any offence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself.
The learned Judge said that in view of Article 20(3) the Investigating Officer has no power to compel the accused to give his explanation for his dispro portionate assets, but he must necessarily ask the public servant for an account.
232 In this case.
the accused appellant has voluntarily submitted his statement of assets and income to the Investi gating Officer in the course of investigation.
Balasubraman yan, J., however, seems to have ignored that statement and focussed his attention on the default of the Investigating Officer in not calling upon the appellant to account for the disproportionate assets. '
In that view, he held that the chargesheet could not be sustained and accordingly quashed the prosecution.
Before us, counsel for the appellant advanced only two propositions.
The first concerns with the ingredients of the offence alleged and the requirements of the charge sheet filed against the appellant.
It also involves the duties of the Investigating Officer.
In this regard counsel sought to support the views expressed by Balasubramanyan, J., in his dissenting judgment.
The second proposition relates to the inapplicability of the Act to Judges of the High Courts and Supreme Court.
The essence of the submissions made on this aspect is based on the special status and role of Judges of the higher judiciary and in the need to safeguard judicial independence consistent with the constitutional provisions.
We will take up the second question first for considera tion because.
if it is determined in favour of the appel lant, the first becomes academic and wc may conveniently leave it out.
For a proper consideration of the submissions made by counsel on both sides the attention may be drawn to the relevant provisions of the Act.
Section 2 provides: "2.
For the purposes of this Act, "public servant" means a public servant as defined in Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code. "
Section 4 provides: 4.
[(1)] Where in any trial of an of fence punishable under section 16 1 or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code (or of an offence referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub section (1) of section 5 of this Act punisha ble under subsection (2) thereof), it is proved that an accused person has accepted or obtained, or has agreed to accept or attempted to obtain, for himself or for any other per son, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing from any person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is 233 proved that he accepted or obtained, or agreed to accept or attempted to obtain, that grati fication or that valuable thing, as the case may be, as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in the said section 161, or, as the case may be, without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate.
(2) Where in any trial of an offence punisha ble under section 165A of the Indian Penal Code (or under clause (ii) of sub section (3) of section 5 of this Act) it is proved that any gratification (other than legal remunera tion) or any valuable thing has been given or offered to be given or attempted to be given by an accused person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that he gave or offered to give or attempted to give that gratification or that valuable thing, as the case may be as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in section 161 of the Indian Penal Code or, as the case may be without consider ation or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub sections (1) and (2) the court may decline to draw the presumption referred to in either of the said sub sections, if the gratification or thing aforesaid is, in its opinion, so trivial that no inference of corruption may fairly be drawn."
Two other provisions are more material namely section 5 and section 6 and must be set out in full.
Section 5 provides: "5(1) A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct (a) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other per son, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in section 161 of the Indian Penal Code, or (b) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain for himself or for any other person, any valuable thing without consideration or for a con 234 sideration which he knows to be inadequate, from any person whom he knows to have been, or to be, or to be likely to be concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or about to be transacted by him, or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate, or from any person whom he knows to be inter ested in or related to the person so con cerned, or (c) if he dishonestly or fraudulent|y misap propriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do, or (d) if he, by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advan tage (or) (e) if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
(2) Any public servant who commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with imprison ment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
(3) Whoever habitually commits (i) an offence punishable under section 162 or section 163 of the Indian Penal Code, or (ii) an offence punishable under section 165 A of the Indian Penal Code, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which 235 shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
(3A) Whoever attempts to commit an offence referred to in clause (c) or clause (d) of sub section (1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.
(3B) Where a sentence of fine is imposed under subsection (2) or sub section (3), the court in fixing the amount of fine shall take into consideration the amount or the value of the property, if any, which the accused person has obtained by committing the offence or where the conviction is for an offence referred to in clause (e) of subsection (1), the pecuniary resources or property referred to in that clause for which the accused person is unable to account satisfactorily.
(4) The provisions of this section shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, any other law for the time being in force, and nothing contained herein shall exempt any public servant from any proceeding which might, apart from this section, be instituted against him.
Section 6 is in the following terms: "6.
No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under section 161 (or section 164) or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code, or under sub section (2) (or sub section 3A) of section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction, (a) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of the (Union) and is not removable from his office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government; (b) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of (a State) and is not removable from his 236 office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
(2) Where for any reason whatsoever any doubt arises whether the previous sanction as re quired under sub section (1) should be given by the Central or State Government or any other authority, such sanction shall be given by that Government or authority which would have been competent to remove the public servant from his office at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed.
It will be convenient, if at this stage, we also read Section Omitting the immaterial clauses, Section 5A is in these terms: "5A.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, no police officer below the rank (a) in the case of the Delhi Special Police Establishment, of an Inspector of Police; (b) in the presidency towns of Calcutta and Madras, of an Assistant Commissioner of Po lice; (c) in the presidency towns of Bombay, of a Superintendent of Police; and (d) elsewhere, of a Deputy Superintendent of Police, shall investigate any offence punishable under Section 161, section 165 or section 165A of the Indian Penal Code or under section 5 of this Act without the order of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or make any arrest there for without a warrant: Provided that if a police officer not below the rank of an Inspector of Police is autho rised by the State Government in this behalf by general or special order, he may also investigate any such offence without the order of a Presi 237 dency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or make arrest therefor without a warrant: Provided further that an offence referred to in clause (e) of sub section (1) of Section 5 shall not be investigated without the order of a police officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police.
The Act was intended to suppress bribery and corruption in public administration and it contains stringent provi sions.
Section 4 raises presumption unless the contrary is proved by the accused in respect of offence punishable under section 161 or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code or of an offence referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of section 5(1) of the Act.
Section 5 of the Act creates offence of criminal misconduct on the part of a public servant.
The public servant defined under section 2 means a public serv ant as defined in Section 21 of the IPC.
Section 21 of the IPC is not really defining "public servant" but enumerating the categories of public servants.
It has enumerated as many as twelve categories of public servants.
Section 5(2) pro vides punishment for such an offence of criminal misconduct up to a term of 7 years or with fine, or with both.
Section 6 prohibits Courts from taking cognizance of an offence unless certain condition is complied with.
We will have an occasion to consider the provisions of Section 6 in detail and for the present we may deal only with the condition prescribed by the Section for a Court to take cognizance of an offence The condition prescribed therein is the previous sanction of a competent authority.
The public servant cannot be prosecuted for offences specified in the Section unless there is prior sanction for prosecution from the competent authority.
It may be of importance to remember that the power to take cognizance of an offence is vested in the Court of competent jurisdiction.
Section 6 is primarily concerned to see that prosecution for the specified offences shall not commence without the sanction of a competent authority.
That does not mean that the Act was intended to condone the offence of bribery.
and corruption by public servant.
Nor it was meant to afford protection to public servant from criminal prosecution for such offences.
It is only to protect the honest public servants from frivolous and vexatious prosecution.
The competent authority has to examine independently and impartially the material on record to form his own opinion whether the offence alleged is frivolous or vexatious.
The competent authority may refuse sanction for prosecution if the offence alleged has no material to support or it is frivolous or intended to harass the honest officer.
But he cannot refuse to grant sanction if the material collected has made out 238 the commission of the offence alleged against the public servant.
Indeed he is duty bound to grant sanction if the material collected lend credence to the offence complained of.
There seems to be another reason for taking away the discretion of the investigating agency to prosecute or not to prosecute a public servant.
When a public servant is prosecuted for an offence which challenges his honesty and integrity, the issue in such a case is not only between the prosecutor and the offender, but the State is also vitally concerned with it as it affects the morale of public serv ants and also the administrative interest of the State.
The discretion to prosecute public servant is taken away from the prosecuting agency and is vested in the authority which is competent to remove the public servant.
The authority competent to remove the public servant would be in a better position than the prosecuting agency to assess the material collected in a dispassionate and reasonable manner and determine whether sanction for prosecution of a public servant deserves to be granted or not.
Section 6 may now be analysed.
Clause (a) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the affairs of the Union.
The prescribed authority for giving prior sanction for such persons would be the Central Govern ment.
Clause (b) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the affairs of the State.
The authority competent to give prior sanction for prosecution of such persons would be the State Government.
Clauses (a) and (b) would thus cover the cases of public servants who are employed in connection with the affairs of the Union or State and are not removable from their office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government or the State Government.
That is not the end.
The Section goes further in clause (c) to cover the remaining categories of public servants.
Clause (c) states that in the case of any other person the sanction would be of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
Section 6 is thus all embracing bringing within its fold all the categories of public serv ants as defined under Section 21 of the IPC.
It is common ground that clauses (a) and (b) of Section 6(1) of the Act cannot cover the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court since they are not employed in connec tion with the affairs of the Union or State.
The question is whether they could be brought within the purview of clause (c) of Section 6(1).
