Appeal No.
4366 of 1991.
From the Judgment and Order dated 16.5.1988 of the Punjab & Haryana High Court in Regular Second Appeal No.
3648 of 1987.
R.K.Kapoor and Anis Ahmed Khan for the Appellant.
S.N.Mishra, L.K.
Gupta, D.K.
Yadav and D.K.Garg for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by AHMADI, J.
Delay condoned.
Special leave granted.
The constitutional validity of section 15(1)(a) of the Punjab Preemption Act, 1913 was challenged on the ground that it offended the fundamental right guaranteed by Article 19(1)(f) m Ram Sarup vs Munshi & Ors., A Constitution Bench of this Court upheld the validity holding that there was no infringement of Article 19(1)(1 ') of the Constitution.
Thereafter, a host of writ petitions 122 were filed in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitu tion challenging the constitutional validity of section 15 on the ground that it infringed Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution.
It may be mentioned that the mother State, the State of Punjab, had repealed the Act in 1973 but it contin ued to be in force in the State of Haryana which prior to 1966 was a part of the State of Punjab.
Section 15 of the 1913 Act, as it originally stood, underwent substantial changes in 1960 and as amended read as under: "15.
Persons in whom right of pre emption vests in respect of sales of agricultural land and village immovable property (1) The right of pre emption in respect of agricultural land and village immovable property shall vest (a) where the sale is by a sole onwer First, in the son or daughter or son 's son or daughter 's son of the vendor; Secondly, in the brother or brother 's son of the vendor; Thirdly, in the father 's brother or father 's brother 's son of the vendor; Fourthly, in the tenant who holds under tenan cy of the vendor the land or properly sold or a part thereof Co) where the sale is of a share out of joint land or property and is not made by all the co sharers jointly First, in the sons or daughters or son 's son or daughter 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Secondly, in the brothers or brother 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Thirdly, in the father 's brother or father 's brother 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Fourthly, in the other co sharers; Fifthly, in the tenants who hold under tenancy of the vendor or vendors the land or property sold or a part thereof; (c) where the sale is of land or property owned jointly and is made by all the co shar ers jointly 123 First, in the sons or daughters or sons ' sons or daughters ' sons of the vendors; Secondly in the brothers or brother 's sons of the vendors; Thirdly, in the father 's brothers or father 's brother 's sons of the vendors Fourthly, in the tenants, who hold under tenancy of the vendors or any one of them the land or properly sold or a part thereof.
(2) Notwithstanding anything con tained in sub section (1): (a ') where the sale is by a female of land or property to which she has succeeded through her father or brother or the sale in respect of such land or property is by the son or daughter of such female after inheritance, the right of pre emption shall vest: (i) if the sale is by such female, in her brother or brother 's son; (ii) if the sale is by the son or daughter of such female, in the mother 's brothers or the mother 's brother 's sons of the vendor or vendors; (b) where the sale is by a female of land or property to which she has succeeded through her husband, or through her son in case the son has inherited the land or property sold from his lather, the right of pre emption shall vest First, in the son or daughter of such husband of the female: Secondly, in the husband 's brother or hus band 's brother 's son of such female."
This Court in Atam Prakash vs State of Haryana & Ors, ; ; held that the right of pre emption given to co sharers as well as to a tenant can be justified as they constitute a class by themselves.
This Court, therefore, upheld the constitutional validity of clause 'fourthly of section 15(1)(a) clauses 'fourthly ' and 'fifthly ' of section 15(1)(b) and clause fourthly of section 15(1)(c) as valid and not infringing Articles 14 or 15 of the Constitution This Court, however, did not find any justification for the classification contained m section 15 which conferred a right of pre emption on the kinsfolk.
The right of preemption based on consanguinity was held to be a relic of the feudal past totally inconsistent with the constitutional philosophy and scheme.
It also found the list of kinsfolk entitled to pre emption as intrinsically defec tive and Self contradictory.
