N: Criminal Appeal No.
Appeal from an Order of the High Court of Bombay (Bavdekar and Chainani JJ.)
dated 20th February, 1950, in Criminal Appeal No.
106 of 1950 arising out of an order dated 9th January, 1950, of the Presidency Magistrate, 19th Court, Esplanade, Bombay, in Case No.
The facts are stated in the judgment.
Iswarlal C. Dalai and R.B.
Dalai, for the appellant.
Daphtary, Solicitor General for India (G. N. Joshi, with him) for the Republic of India (respondent No.
1).Jindra Lal for the respondent No.
February 1.
The Judgment of the Court was deliv ered by CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
The facts out of which this Crimi nal Appeal has arisen are not long.
The appellant, W.H.
King, who is carrying on a business in Bombay under the name and style of Associated Commercial Enterprises, was the tenant of a flat on the second floor of a building called "Ganga Vihar", Marine Drive, Bombay, which belongs to a lady named Durgeshwari Devi.
The tenancy was a monthly one, the rent being Rs.
It is said that the appellant wanted to go to the United Kingdom for treatment of his failing eye sight and he got into touch with the complainant Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia, who is the second respondent in this appeal, through one Sayed for the purpose of making necessary ar rangements about the flat occupied by him in view of his intended departure.
29,500 as consideration for putting the complainant in vacant possession of the flat and an additional amount of Rs.
2,000 for the furniture, and that the complainant agreed to pay these sums.
The complainant actually paid the accused two sums of 420 Rs.
500 each on 7th November, 1948, and 17th November, 1948.
He, however, got into touch with the police on 1 12 1948, and in conjunction with the latter, a trap was laid for the appellant.
It was arranged that the complainant should bring with him Rs.
1,000, being the balance due in respect of the furniture and that the police would give him Rs.
29,500 to be paid to the appellant.
The complainant and a Sub Inspec tor, posing as the complainant 's brother, went to the appel lant on 4 12 1948, and paid him the two sums of money; and the keys of the flat and the motor garage were handed over to the complainant.
