Appeals from the judgment and order dated November 20, 1957, of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, in Writ Petitions Nos.
A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, V. Vedantachari and K. Sundararajan, for the appellant.
H. N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor General of India, D. Venkatappiah Sastri and T. M. Sen for respondent No.
K. R. Choudhuri, for respondent No.
August 14.
These three appeals are directed against the judgment and order pronounced by a Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on November 20, 1957, whereby three writ petitions, namely, No.
470 of 1957, which had been filed by the appellant and were heard together, were dismissed with costs.
These appeals have been filed with certificates granted by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh .
The circumstances under which the three writ petitions came to be filed by the appellant may now be narrated.
It is alleged that on January 10, 1942, an agreement was entered into between the Rajah of Venkatagiri and one Sri Balumuri Nageswara Rao whereby the Rajah agreed to give annual leases in respect of certain slate quarries within his estate for five years in succession commencing from February 1942 if the Rajah was satisfied with the work carried on by the lessee during the preceding year.
It was 551 further stipulated that if the leases were given continuously for five years, then the lessee would be entitled at the end of the fifth year to obtain a lease from the Rajah for a period of 20 years commencing from the termination of the fifth year.
The Rajah on the same day granted a lease for twenty years to the appellant.
On September 7, 1949 the Venkatagiri estate was notified under section 3 of the Madras Estate (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act 1948 (Madras Act XXVI of 1948), hereinafter referred to as the abolition Act.
On the same date the appellant applied to the Collector for confirmation of the lease 'granted by the Rajah to him.
Nothing appears to have happened until February 12, 1952, when a notice was issued from the office of the Board of Revenue (Andhra) calling upon the appellant to show cause within two months from the date of receipt of.
that notice as to why the lease should not be terminated without any compensation under the second proviso to section 20(1) of the Abolition Act.
Instructions appear to have been issued to the manager of the Venkatagiri estate requiring him to take over possession of the slate quarries which were then being worked by the appellant immediately after the expiry of two months ' notice issued to him.
The appellant promptly filed a writ petition, No.
