An industrial dispute between these workmen and the management of Orient Paper Mills Ltd hereinafter referred to as the Company was referred by the State Government under section 101 d of the Industrial Disputes Act hereinafter referred to as the Act for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
The special leave in this Court was sought and granted in respect of two matters covering some of these items.
In the course of the hearing of the appeal learned counsel appearing on behalf of the workmen further gave up some of the points which were the subject matter of the items mentioned above so that in this judgment we need deal with only those points which were argued by him in support of the appeal.
The first and the main point argued with regard to wages was that the Tribunal after holding that there was no identical industry in this region comparable with the Company came to.
the view that there were other industries in the region in which minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the Company but failed to fix the minimum wages in the award in accordance with the minimum wages being paid in those industries.
vs Workmen1 where it was held  It is now well settled that the principle of industry cum region has to be applied by an Industrial Court when it proceeds to consider questions like wage structure dearness allowance and similar conditions of service.
On these facts the Tribunal held that it would not be proper to compare the wage structure for these Paper Mills with that of the Company.
Though therefore in a case where a particular concern is already paying the highest wages in its own line of business the industrial courts would be justified in looking at wages paid in that region in other lines of business it should take care to see that the concerns from other lines of business taken into account are such as are as nearly similar as possible to the line of business carried on by the concern before it.
 On the basis of this finding of fact the Tribunal held that if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which in its opinion would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case then a revision was really necessary.
Having come to this view it is clear that to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co1 the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
