l Misc.
Petitions Nos.
401and 4012 of 1968.
Applications by respondent No 1 for revocation of the certificate granted by the Madras High Court on 15th October 1968 under article 1331a  b of the Constitution of India.
AND Civil Appeals Nos 2183 and 2184 of 1968.
Appeals from the judgment and order elated October 9 1968 of the Madras High Court in OSA No 25 and 27 of 1968.
MC Setalvad.
VP Raman DN Mishra and JB Dadachanji for the appellant.
section Mohan Kumaramangalam.
Ramamurthi J by order dated April 12 1968 granted an interim injunction restraining encashment of the letters of credit pending disposal of the suit.
In appeals under the Letters Patent preferred by the second defendant.
the High Court of Madras set aside that order.
Against the orders passed in the two appeals the plaintiffs applied for certificate under Arts1331a and 1331b of the Constitution.
The High Court observed that an order granting interim injunction is a final order as far as this Court is concerned determining the rights of parties within this lit or proceeding which is independent though ancillary to the suit and they were competent to grant the certificate.
By our order dated October 28 1968 we ordered that the certificate granted by the High Court do stand revoked.
 The suit filed by the plaintiffs is a civil proceeding and the suit involves some claim or question respecting property of not less than twenty thousand rupees.
The expression judgment in article 133  1  in the context in which it occurs means a final adjudication by the Court of the rights of the parties and that an interlocutory judgment even if it decides an issue or issues without finally determining the rights and liabilities of the parties is not a judgment however cardinal the issue may be.
In the present case not even an issue has been decided and it is not contended that the order of the High Court amounts to a judgment or a decree.
The expression final order it has been held by a long course of authorities occurring in section 205 of the Government of India Act 1935 section 109 of the Code of Civil Procedure and article 1331 of the Constitution means a final decision on the rights of the parties in dispute in a suit or proceeding if the rights of the parties in dispute in the suit or proceeding remain to be tried after the order the order is not final.
Soon after the suit was instituted the plaintiff firm was adjudicated insolvent and the official assignee was impleaded as an additional plaintiff.
Against that order an appeal was preferred to the Judicial Committee which was held not maintainable.
During the pendency of the suit them Bombay Prevention of Ex communication Act 42 of 1949 was enacted and one of the issues raised in the suit was whether the order of ex communication was invalid.
The trial court decided the issue against the appellant and the order was confirmed in appeal by the High Court of Bombay.
