The question that arises in this appeal by special leave is whether Shri Vithal Sukhamai Sansthan at Amalner East Khandesh was a private Devasthan or a public religious trust.
There was a saint endowed with spiritual powers by the name of Sakharam Maharaj at Amalner.
The deity of his worship was Shri Vithal Rukhamai.
Although the origin of the Sansthan is dipped somewhat in antiquity and direct testimony was lacking it has never been disputed that Sakharam Maharaj constructed a temple in the year 1817 at Amalner and installed the aforesaid deity according to religious rites.
He also acquired certain properties and the said temple with the properties constituted Shri Vithal Rukhamai Sansthan of Amalner.
The application was made on May 29 1952 to the Assistant Charity Commissioner Poona under protest and without prejudice 520 to the claim made therein that the Sansthan was not a public trust.
On behalf of the applicants representing the Sansthan evidence of the attorney Ramkrishna Deshpande was recorded and he was cross examined by the assessors as well as by the Assistant Charity Commissioner.
At the close of the enquiry the Assistant Charity Commissioner by his order of August 25 1956 held the Sansthan to be a public trust and ordered its registration as a public trust under the Act.
The applicants thereupon filed an appeal under section 70 of the Act before the Charity Commissioner Bombay who by his order of August 31 1957 affirmed the decision of the Assistant Charity Commissioner.
That led to an application under section 72 of the Act to the District Judge of West Khandesh at Dhulia which was duly filed on behalf of Purshottambuwa who meanwhile succeeded Guru Vasudeobuwa as owner of the Sansthan.
The learned District Judge reversed the decision of the Charity Commissioner by his order of October 16 1959 and declared the Sansthan to be a private property and not a public trust.
The High Court by its order of 1920th December 1962 set aside the order of the District Judge and held the Sansthan to be a public trust under the Act and restored the order of the Charity Commissioner.
The learned District Judge relied mostly on the documentary evidence for his conclusion in favour of the appellant.
The High Court particularly relied upon an admission of the appellant s witness Ramkrishna Deshpande when he stated that we cannot prevent people from going to the temple as the temple is meant for the Darshan by the public.
His only contention is that it is a private religious endowment and not a public one.
He submits that there is no evidence of long user of this temple by 521 the public as a matter of right.
Relying upon the above definitions Mr Bal submits that there is absolutely no evidence in this case about dedication to the public or public user of the temple as a matter of right.
The Sanad being an ancient Royal grant is a very important piece of evidence to show that although Sakharam Maharaj the founder of the temple had already been succeeded by Guru Govindbuwa and the latter by Balkrishnabuwa the land had been held in the year 1860 61 in the name of the Devasthan.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
