Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
The appellant was acquitted by the learned Additional Sessions judge Chittoor of an offence under Section 302 Indian Penal Code.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased s mother.
After about one and a half months the accused asked his mother in law and brother in law to send his wife to his place.
They replied that she had only delivered a child recently and that she would be sent to her husband s house in the fifth month.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
The accused and P W 8 went away.
That evening the accused again came to the house of his mother in law.
On waking up they saw the accused sitting by the side of the deceased with a knife in his hand.
They found the deceased bleeding profusely from the left side of her chest.
They caught hold of the accused and tied him to a pole in front of the house by means of a rope.
P W 1 affixed his thumb impression on the report exhibit P 1 prepared by P W 9.
When the Police officers went to the village they 366 found the accused tied to a pole.
The Medical Officer P W 12 who conducted the autopsy found on the dead body a stab wound over the left axila 6 cms.
nearly horizontal.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
P W 13 the Medical officer who examined the accused found several abrasions and contusions on the person of the accused.
There was no fracture.
They insulted him.
He referred to the evidence of me Doctor who stated that the injury found on the deceased could have been caused even if she was standing.
The learned Sessions Judge thought that when there were two divergent versions given by the prosecution and the defence and when two views were possible the benefit of doubt should be given to the accused.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
The High Court also concluded from the medical evidence that it was more probable that the deceased was stabbed when she was lying down.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
He urged that at the reasons given by the learned Sessions Judge had not been met by the High Court.
He also contended that two views were possible on the evidence and the accused was entitled to the benefit of doubt.
We have perused the relevant evidence as well as the judgments of the Sessions Judge and the High Court.
We are unable to find any substance in the submissions made by the learned Counsel for the appellant.
The High Court was also right in holding that the medical evidence supported the prosecution version and not the defence version.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P W 1 and himself.
We do not think that an injury of the nature received by the deceased could have been caused in the manner suggested by the accused.
The learned Counsel for the appellant advanced the usual argument submitted in all cases where an order of acquittal is reversed namely that where two views of the evidence are possible the accused is entitled to the benefit of the doubt arising from the two views and that where the Trial Court has taken a possible view and acquitted the accused the High Court should not interfere with the order of acquittal merely because another view is also possible.
