ON Criminal Appeal No 126 of 1955.
M R Parpia J B Dadachanji and section N Andley for the appellant.
April 24.
This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Bombay dismissing an application made to it under article 226 of the Constitution.
These proceedings relate to the validity of an order of detention passed by the Government of Bombay on the 8th June 1955 against the appellant before us who is an Advocate of the High Court of Bombay having a standing of about thirty years.
He was in the Indian Air Force as an emergency Commissioned Officer between 1943 to 1948 and thereafter on extension for another four years until he attained the age of 55.
O R D E R.
Whereas the Government of Bombay is satisfied with respect to the person known as Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay that with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the relations of India with the Portuguese Government and to the Security of India it is necessary to make the following Order Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub clause 1 of clause a of sub section 1 of section 3 of the Act IV of 1950 the Government of Bombay is pleased to direct that Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay be detained.
By Order and in the name of the Governor of Bombay.
Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay.
1The order of detention was mala fide.
The grounds of detention are vague.
385 4The claim of State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest is unsustainable and in any case mala fide.
The challenge to the validity of the order based on the attack of mala fides and non application of the mind of the detaining authority have been urged before us with great insistence.
This part of the argument raises what ultimately are questions of fact which have been fully considered by the High Court.
But under the guise thereof the police seized and carried away a mass of documents papers and printed material of the appellant as also a typewriter belonging to him.
The above high handed action of the police by way of search and seizure was the subject matter of challenge by the appellant by means of a writ application in the High Court in which the police officers concerned filed affidavits virtually admitting the appellant s allegations relating to seizure of papers etc.
2 When one Joaquim Carlos a Portuguese soldier 386 attached to Goan forces was arrested on a charge of entering Indian territory without the requisite authority the appellant rendered professional assistance to him and obtained an order of release on bail from the Chief Presidency Magistrate Bombay which was foiled by the police by removing him away to Sawantwadi before the requisite sureties could be obtained at Bombay.
But on appeal filed by the appellant before the Sessions Judge the conviction was set aside and retrial ordered.
3Between April 1955 to June 1955 there occurred certain incidents which were inspired and instigated by the members of the Goan Action Committee who were agitating against Portuguese hold over Goa.
The appellant s counsel strongly urged that the bona fides of the detaining authority is to be judged with reference to the above background of events and that viewed in that light the vagueness of the grounds and the belated claim of privilege under article 226 of the Constitution strengthen his contention.
But the right of the detenue to be furnished particulars is subject to the limitation under article 226 whereby disclosure of facts considered to be against public interest cannot be required.
