Tax Reference Cases Nos 3 to 5 of 1975 Tax Reference under Section 257 of the Income tax Act 1961 made by the Income tax Appellate Tribunal Cuttack Bench Cuttack PA Francis Champat Rai and Miss A Subhashini for the Appellant.
CSS Rao for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by 308 PATHAK J.
The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and urged that as it maintained its books of account in accordance with the cash system of accounting the accrued interest on the money lending investments could not be included in the wealth tax assessments.
The contention found favour with the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and accordingly he deleted the additions of Rs 150000 representing accrued interest.
In doing so the Appellate Assistant Commissioner followed Commissioner of Wealth tax Bihar and Orissa vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju Orissa1 The Wealth Tax Officer appealed to the Appellate Tribunal and contended that accrued interest was liable to be included in the wealth tax assessments of the assessee.
The Wealth Tax Officer sought support from a judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedreva Venkappa Rao vs Commissioner of Wealth tax2 AP.
The Appellate Tribunal observed that the judgment of the Orissa High Court was binding on it and accordingly by a consolidated order dated April 3 1972 it dismissed the appeals.
The question can be disposed of shortly.
Under section 3 of the Wealth Tax Act wealth tax is charged for every assessment year in respect of the net wealth of the assessee on the corresponding valuation date.
The expression net wealth is defined by cl.
m of s2 of the Act as the amount by which the aggregate value  .
That is the valuation date.
The figure of net wealth of the assessee at the end of the previous year takes into account the financial activities of the assessee during that previous year.
His financial activities during that period determine how his net wealth on a particular valuation date differs from his net wealth on the immediately preceding valuation date.
There is an obvious advantage in adopting as the valuation date the last day of a period which is also the relevant period under the Income Tax Act.
There is clear indication that the assets to be considered are not circumscribed by any consideration of the particular system of accounting adopted by the assessee.
The assets are not confined to cash.
In other words it would be the estimated open market value of the rights in the property which constitute the asset.
There is no order as to costs.
