Civil Appeal No 1709 of 1988.
The civil appeal by speci al leave and the connected SLP raise an important issue as to the power of the Central Administration Tribun al Tribunal to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded by the competent authority to a Government servant in discipl i nary proceedings.
The report of e n quiry was forwarded to the competent authority who aft er giving an opportunity of being heard dismissed the respon d ent from service.
The respondent moved the High Court of Himachal Prade sh under Article 226 challenging the findings of Inquiry off i cer as well as the order of dismissal passed by the comp e tent authority.
During the pendency of the writ petition a Bench of the Central Tribunal at Chandigarh was constitut ed under the Administrative Tribunal Act 1985.
The Tribunal upon consideration of the matter agre ed with the findings recorded by the Inquiry Officer that t he respondent was the master mind behind the scheme to defra ud the project.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
This is how the Tribunal dealt with that que s tion Lastly it was argued on behalf of the applicant that t he punishment awarded to him is disproportionate to the gravi ty of the charge proved against him and is in stark contrast to the punishment awarded to his other three colleagues in whose cases only future increments were stopped the max i mum being for three years in respect of Shri Sain Ditt a Clerk.
with the disciplinary authority whi le dismissing the applicant from service.
The question which has to be decided therefore is whether the Tribunal has power to modify the penalty award ed to the respondent when the findings recorded as to h is misdemeanour is supported by legal evidence.
Before the Trib u nal was constituted the Courts were exercising judici al review of administrative decisions in public services.
It provides power to Parliament to enact law for establishme nt of Administrative Tribunals for adjudication of disput es with regard to service matters.
In pursuance of the provisions of the Act the Centr al Government has established the Central Administrative Trib u nal with a Bench at Chandigarh whose order has been cha l lenged before us.
Jurisdiction powers and authority of t he Central Administrative Tribunal 27 1 Save as otherwise expressly provided in th is Act the Central Administrative Tribunal shall exercise on and from the appointed day all the jurisdiction powers a nd authority exercisable immediately before that day by a ll courts except Supreme Court in relation to a recruitment and matters concerning recrui t ment to any All India Service or to any civil service of the Union or a civil post under the Union or to a po st connected with defence or in the defence services being in either case a post filled by a civilian b all service matters concerning Similar are the powers and authority of the State Ser v ice Tribunal under sec.
The powers of the High Cour ts under Article 226 in so far as they are exercisable in relation to service matters stand conferred on the Tribun al established under the Act.
