ivil Appeal No 4649 of 1989.
From the Judgment and Order dated 2671988 of the Allahabad High Court in Review Application No 27W of 1988.
Anil Dev Singh and Mrs section Dikshit for the Appellants.
Yogeshwar Prasad Vijay Hansaria Sunil K Jain SK Jain for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH CJ.
The Respondent Arun Govil had been granted a permanent commission in the Indian Air Force and was working as a Pilot Officer.
The State of Uttar Pradesh also adopted the same scheme.
Under that scheme the ex military officials were appointed on Contract basis for a fixed term which could be extended from time to time subject to the suitability of the official concerned but not beyond 58 years of age.
Pursuant to the said scheme the State of Uttar Pradesh appointed the respondent as the Secretary Zila Sainik Board Unnao on 20th of August 1979.
Paragraph 2 of the said order of appointment issued on 20th August 1979 reads thus The appointment shah be on contract for a period of one 241 year wef.
the date of assumption if it is not terminated earlier by giving a one month s notice by the Hon ble Gover nor or on paying one month s salary in lieu thereof or by giving one month s notice by the Officer.
 The respondent was required to furnish his acceptance of the terms and conditions contained in the said order includ ing the above term relating to the period of appointment and on his accepting the terms and conditions he was appointed as the Secretary in the District Soldiers Board in the district of Unnao in the State of Uttar Pradesh .
The said term was extended retrospectively first upto 20th August 1982 by an order passed in September 1981 and it was again extended upto 31st March 1983 by an order made in February 1983.
Again the term was extended upto 30th of August 1985 by an order dated 1st June 1983.
All these orders of exten sion were couched almost in the same language.
ADM141 Dated 3131982 on the above subject I am directed to say that the terms of the officers mentioned under para 2 who were appointed wef.
The Governor is therefore pleased to accord his sanction to extend the period of the contract upto the period mentioned under para 5 subject to the condi tion that their service tenure shall expire on completion of 58 years of age in case the same is completing earlier during the extended period.
During the extended period of the contract conditions of service of officers shall remain same as are mentioned under their Appointment Order.
Letters of accept ance of relevant conditions of service to be obtained from these officers must be submitted to the Government at an early date.
 It is thus seen that the appointment of the respondent was indisputably in the nature of contract and under the last order of appointment refened to above he was entitled to continue in office in the post in question till 30th of August 1985 and not beyond that date unless there was a further extension.
But on 2931985 the service of the 1st Respondent was terminated by the issue of a notice and payment of one month s salary.
The order was to be effective from the date of receipt of termination order and no charges were men tioned therein against the 1st respondent.
A Division Bench of the High Court found that the order of termination that had been served on the respondent was an invalid one since it had been issued on the basis of Vigilance Report and no opportunity had been given to the respondent to show cause why such action should not be taken against him.
The High Court however held that the termination order could not be sustained and the Writ Petition was liable to be allowed.
The High Court further issued a direction to the effect that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service.
In the instant case the respondent was entitled to be in service till 30th of Au guSt 1985 unless there was a further extention.
In the Penultimate paragraph of the judgment the High Court further stated It is open for the opposite parties to con sider the claim of the petitioner for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard are being made by this Court.
 The judgment was delivered on 2431988.
243 The respondent who was not satisfied by the order allow ing the Writ Petition as stated above preferred a Review Petition before the High Court contending that he was enti tled to be reinstated in service on the pronouncement of the Judgment on 243.
1988 notwithstanding the fact that his term of office had come to an end on 30th of August 1985 as stated above and no further order of extention had been passed by the Governor.
 The contention of the respondent was that the said interim order entitled him to be reinstated in service irrespective of the fact whether the Governor had extended the period of his appointment beyond 30th of August 1985.
The High Court allowed the Review PetitiOn on 2671988 and made an order reinstating the Respondent in service which reads as follows This is an application for review of our Judgment dated 2431988 by which we allowed the Writ Petition filed by the Petitioner with certain directions.
It is not disputed that the scheme under which the respond ent 244 had been appointed provided for an appointment by contract for a specified term which could be extended from time to time and that the term of the respondent had been extended on different occasions after his first appointment and he was not entitled to continue in service beyond 30th August 1985 unless there was a further extension.
It is on this basis that the High court had while setting aside the order of termination by its order dated 2431988 directed that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service and further observed that it was open for the opposite parties to consider the claim of the respondent for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard were made by the Court.
TNA Appeal allowed.
