From the Judgment  Order dated the 27101979 of the Madras High Court in Crl.
The appellant had been sentenced to undergo RI for 15 months under section 52 read with section 51d of the Prevention of Corruption Act with no separate sen tence under section 161 IPC.
The appellant Sunderamoorthy was an Accountant cum Headclerk in the Tamil Nadu Forest Training School at Vaigai Dam.
PW 3 the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1 Venkataswamy the canteen contractor as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
This was on the basis of a complaint made by the appellant that the food served in the canteen was substand ard.
The latter made a complaint to PW 6 who thereupon arranged a trap.
As instructed PW 1 was ready with ten rupees currency notes.
When PW 1 emerged PW 6 along with PW 2 confronted the appellant.
The appellant produced the currency notes.
PW 6 conducted the phenolphthalein test with reference to the fingers of the appellant.
The test was positive the currency notes were seized and the appellant arrested.
PW 3 the Principal produced the concerned file relating to show cause notice from the house of the appellant on the same day.
Finally the appellant was chargesheeted.
At the trial the prosecution witnesses supported the case.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 2210.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant was not challenged.
The plea of the appellant was that PW 1 had returned the amount due to him and there had been no demand for a bribe as there had been no occasion for doing so.
The Trial Court accepted the prosecution evidence rejected the plea of the appellant and recorded the conviction.
was guilty.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 41 of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
The learned counsel appearing for the appellant however maintained that the appellant had a consistent case even from the earliest opportunity that the currency notes found in his possession was the money returned by PW 1 the cir cumstances of the case would probabalise this case of the appellant and the presumption if any arising under section 4 is rebutted and the conviction cannot therefore be sus tained.
