ivil Misc.
Petition No 15001 of 1989.
K Ram Kumar SA Ahmed Tanweer Abdul and Mohan Pandey for the Respondents.
The following Order of the Court was delivered 540 The special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution is directed against the affirming judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in a suit for title and injunction.
In view of the fact that a petition of compromise in respect of the entire subject matter of litigation has been filed in this Court it is unnecessary to refer to the facts leading to the litigation.
We shall therefore confine the discussion to matters pertinent to the compromise.
Subbamma adopted one KV Seshiah.
Seshiah married two wives.
Through the first wife he had a son born to him by name Sudarshan Gupta and through the second another son by name Anand Babu.
In February 1985 during the pendency of the special leave petition the adoptive mother died.
Sudarshan and Anand Babu led claim to the entire property of Subbamma exclusively to each of them under two different wills said to be by subbamma and each contended that the other will was a forged one.
With the death of the adoptive mother Seshiah led claim to the entire property as heir.
While each of the parties had taken such stand in the litigation a compromise was brought about on 2181987 between the father and his two sons and the same was filed in this Court.
When the matter was listed before the Court for recording of the compromise Sudarshan Gupta second respondent herein maintained that he had not been paid Rs1 lakh as stipulated and he had no intention to accept the compromise.
The question as to recording of the compromise was taken up by the Court and parties have been heard.
The alienees 541 have now been brought on record unders order of this Court.
The alienations are for about a purported consideration of Rs 4 lakhs.
The alienees have admittedly been in possession of the property from the date of the sales which is more than three years  old by now.
Admittedly the transfers are pendente lite.
The alienees have made an attempt to hold out that there were agreements for sale prior to the compromise for which there is no acceptable evidence.
We think we have to find that the alienees had no interest in the property prior to the compromise and we must hold that the sale deeds are subsequent to 2181987.
Mr Ram Kumar who appeared for the second respondent apart from maintaining that his client has not received the sum of Rs1 lakh has not been able to point out any justification as to why the compromise should not be acted upon and on the basis of it the litigation may not be disposed of.
The factum of compromise is not in dispute.
He sought to rely on certain decisions which on being referred to were found to be totally inapplicable to the facts of the case.
vs Janaki Dei  Ors AIR 1980 Ori.
We direct that the compromise petition shall be accepted and in terms thereof the suit shall be disposed of and the terms of the compromise shall form part of the order to be drawn up in this Court for disposing of the special leave petition.
With a view to settling all equities between the parties and with the consent of Seshiah who is present in Court and counsel for the sons and after hearing the Advocate for the alienees we make the following directions 1.
Rs 77124 being the amount paid by the alienees before the Sub Registrar in respect of the sale deeds shall be deposited within the same period in the Trial Court and the alienees of the different sale deeds would be entitled to withdraw the amounts on the basis of the record made by the Sub Registrar on each of the sale deeds.
The alienees have no right created under the alleged sale deeds.
543 4.
