These two appeals by special leave raise a common question of law and that is whether business losses incurred in the erstwhile State of Cochin could under the Income tax Act of Travancore be set off against the business profits made in the erstwhile State of Travancore.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 321 and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act hereinafter called the Travancore Act.
The assessee s appeal to the Income tax Commissioner was unsuccessful but the Appellate Tribunal held that the banking business of the assessee being one and indivisible for the purpose of determining the amount assessable to income tax it was entitled to deduct the losses incurred outside Travancore State from the profits accruing and arising in that State.
This was not allowed by the Income tax Officer and on appeal this order was confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
The Commissioner has come up in appeal pursuant to special leave against both these judgments.
It may be stated that the relevant sections of the Travancore Act which govern the two appeals are identically worded with those of the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 to be called the Indian Act.
Application of the Act 4 4 Head of income charge able to income tax 9 6 Business 13 10 Exemptions of a gene ral nature 18 14 Set off of loss in com puting aggregate in come 32 24 261 It is only necessary to set out section 321 of the Travancore Act and the proviso which correspond to section 241 and proviso i of the Indian Act and which are necessary for the decision of the appeals before us S321  Where any assessee sustains a loss of profits or gains in any year under any of the heads mentioned in Section 9 Section 6 he shall be entitled to have the amount of loss set off against this income profits or gains under any other head in that year Provided that where the loss sustained is a loss of profits or gains which would but for the loss have accrued or arisen within British India or in an Indian State and would under the provisions of clause e of sub section 2 of Section 18 Section 142c  have been exempted from tax such loss shall not be set off except against profits or gains accruing or arising within British India or in an Indian State and exempt from tax under the said provisions .
262 proviso falls in the second category and takes the present cases out of section 321 of the Travancore Act and imposes a liability to tax on the profits or gains arising in that State disallowing a deduction of the losses in British India and in States other than Travancore State against profits made in Travancore State Rhondda Urban Council vs Taff Vale Railway 1 and Harrison vs Ward 2.
It may be mentioned that in the majority of cases decided in India the proviso to section 241 of the Indian Act has been construed in a manner contrary to the submissions made on behalf of the Revenue.
From 1922 to 1939 in order to be taxable income profits and gains had to be received or had to accrue in British India.
Under section 215 of the Act total income  was defined to mean the total amount of income profits and gains computed in the manner laid down in that Act.
