whether the appellant herein and his father had sublet the premises in question in or about 1960 in terms of section 131e of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control act1947.
hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
the appellant claimed to be the tenant in respect of the two premises which are quite adjacent to each other one of which is involved in this appeal.
the respondent is the landlord of the two premises and these were situated at raikhad ward ahmedabad.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine.
we are concerned in this appeal with only one of the premises which was involved in suit no 553 of 1969 it is not in dispute and it never was that the premises was being used by bharat neon signs firm being the defendant no 2 in the original suit.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
it is clear from the evidence on record that the partnership firm had undergone metamorphosis from time to time and again ever since the year 1960 the firm bharat neon signs first originated on 4th of october1960 as many as six persons were named in the partnership firm on or about 4th of october1960 and they had executed a deed of partnership on 13th of october1960 which is exhibit 114 on the record.
the said partnership deed records six persons who were to run the business in manufacturing and selling bharat neon signs tubes.
on or about 24th of october1960.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
it may be mentioned that the partnership deed exhibit 114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
there is a third partnership deed exhibit 70 which showed that the deceased tenant girdharlal had died on 1st of february1961 and so by the remaining seven partners with same terms and conditions a new partnership deed being exhibit 70 was executed on 22nd.
nos 34 and 5.
the main question in issue in this appeal as well as before the high court in revision was whether there was a genuine partnership at the appellant was a partner.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
this view is now concluded by the decision of this court in madras bangalore transport co west v inder singh and others1986 3 s c c 62 1986.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
there was an appeal before the court of small causes bombay and by judgment and order delivered by the court of small causes bombay on 18th of august1977it was held that the learned trial judge had erred in passing a decree for possession on the ground of subletting change of user and breach of terms of tenancy.
he has stated further that the suit premises were to be used for business and he could use it for any business and he joined in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 somewhere in 1961 to prepare neon signs and the defendants nos 2 to 5 were his partners and doing business in the suit premises.
he contended further that the suit premises was with him and the defendants nos 2 to 5 had not acquired any tenancy rights in the suit premises.
it is further stated that he had filed a civil suit to dissolve the partnership and to take account and his suit was pending in city civil court.
these facts were accepted that there was a partnership.
this was set aside in appeal.
the court of small causes came to the conclusion on an analysis of the evidence before it and the terms of the three partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore that there was a genuine partnership in law which was acted upon.
whether there was a partnership or not may in certain cases be a mixed question of law and fact in the sense that whether the ingredients of partnership as embodied in the law of partnership were there in a particular case or not must be judged in the light of the principles applicable to partnership.
the first question therefore is what is a partnership.
that has to be found in section 4 of the indian partnership act1932it says partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all emphasis supplied.
section 6 of the said act reiterates that in determining whether a group of persons is or is not a firm or whether a person is or is not a partner in a firm regard shall be had to the real relation between the parties as shown by all relevant facts taken together.
the following important elements must be there in order to establish partnership1 there must be an agreement entered into by all parties concerned2.
the agreement must be to share profits of business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
the partnership deeds were there entitling the petitioner to share in the partnership.
the clause of the partnership deed provided that there should be a fixed percentage of profit to be given to the partner appellant no 1 the appellant was not to share the losses.
there is nothing inherently illegal or improbable making a provision of such a type.
in the eye of law such a clause is really non sequitur or neutral proving neither the existence nor non existence of a genuine firm.
however on account of the death of khristi girdharbhai chimanlal on 1 2 61 and other reasons the said partnership was dissolved from 8 9 61 thereafter we the parties from the first to seventh part have after purchasing at its cost price all the debts and dues goods stock etc together with goodwill of the dissolved partnership started manufacturing and selling of neon signs tubes in partnership from 9 9 61 we the parties of all the seven parts execute the deed of the said partnership to day.
it was contended by mr mehta that there was no agency reading the partnership deeds as we have read that conclusion does not emanate from position appearing debiting the fixed amount payable to the appellant in the expenses account which also is not inconsistent with partnership.
the high court on a reappraisal of these very evidence came to the conclusion that the partnerships were camouflages and were not acted upon and in fact and in reality the partnership firm was a sub tenant of the appellant herein.
this view had also been expressed in the decision of this court in puranchand v motilal1963.
supp 2 s c r 906 1962 indlaw sc 455.
in the instant case the basic question is whether keeping in background the partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore and the facts that came to light was there partnership or not.
