these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
background facts.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
they having come to learn that certain vacancies exist in the respondent authority applied therefor although no advertisement in that behalf was issued.
the respondent authority appointed the appellants and posted them to an overseas project known as indore habitat project which was implemented through the agency of overseas development authority hereinafter referred to as the oda on daily wages.
rs 63 per day for the degree holders and rs 52 50 per day for the diploma holders.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
they were also being granted the benefit of leave.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
if no then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
the parties filed their respective pleadings before the labour court and also adduced their respective evidences.
the labour court on the basis of the materials produced before it arrived at the following findings 1.
the appellants were appointed by the indore development authority.
their work was satisfactory.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
there is no difference in their work and the work of the employees of indore development authority.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
the oda project is said to have been completed and only the maintenance thereof was to be looked after by the indore municipal corporation.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
mr v r reddy learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would contend that indisputably the appellants were engaged by the respondent authority but such appointments were made for the purpose of the project financed by oda.
sd c e o 23 10 91.
the learned counsel would submit that in the aforementioned premise the question of regularization of the services of the appellants does not arise.
provisions section 22 of the 1961 act.
classification of employees.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
probationers iv badlies v apprentices and vi temporary.
temporary employee means an employee who has been employed for work which is essentially of a temporary character or who is temporarily employed as an additional employee in connection with the temporary increase in the work of a permanent nature provided that in case such employee is required to work continuously for more than six months he shall be deemed to be a permanent employee within the meaning of cl.
it is also not in dispute that the state government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the adhiniyam has made rules known as m p development authority services officers and servants recruitment rules 1987.
the posts of sub engineers in which the appellants were appointed.
the question therefore which arises for consideration is as to whether they could lay a valid claim for regularization of their services.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
the constitutional scheme which the country has adopted does not contemplate any backdoor appointment.
a daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.
ajay kumar 1997 4 scc 88 1997 indlaw sc 833 jawaharlal nehru krishi viswa vidyalaya jabalpur m p vs.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
jt 2004 6 sc 110 2004 indlaw sc 606 a three judge bench of this court of which we were members upon taking into consideration a large number of decisions held although we do not intend to express any opinion as to whether the cooperative society is a state within the meaning of article but it is beyond any cavil of doubt that the writ petition will be maintainable when the action of the cooperative society is violative of mandatory statutory provisions.
the state has not created any post nor they could do so on their own.
yet recently in pankaj gupta ors etc.
vs state of jammu kshmir ors.
jt 2004 8 sc 531 2004 indlaw sc 729 a division bench of this court opined no person illegally appointed or appointed without following the procedure prescribed under the law is entitled to claim that he should be continued in service.
in dr a k jain and others etc.
vs union of india and others 1987 supp.
in niadar and another vs delhi administration and another 1992 4 scc 112 1988 indlaw sc 244 again no law has been laid down.
application of the act and the rules.
the 1961 act was enacted to provide for rules defining with sufficient precision in certain matters the conditions of employment of employees in undertakings in the state of madhya pradesh.
by reason of the provisions of the said act application of standard standing orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the standard standing orders have been specified.
no notification has been brought to our notice that the standard standing orders had been made applicable to the appellants.
it is furthermore not in dispute that adhiniyam came into force in 1973.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
the 1961 act provides for classification of employees in five categories.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
the said provisions were not complied with.
it is accepted that no appointment letter was issued in favour of the appellants.
we have noticed hereinbefore that in the case of om prakash mondloi the ceo made an endorsement to the effect that he may be tried in daily wages and should be entrusted with the work of progress collection of oda work.
they might have been subjected to the provisions of the employees provident fund and might have been granted the benefit of leave or given some employment code and their names might have found place in the seniority list amongst others but thereby they can not be said to have been given a permanent ticket.
with a view to become eligible to be considered as a permanent employee or a temporary employee one must be appointed in terms thereof.
permanent employee has been divided in two categories i who had been appointed against a clear vacancy in one or more posts as probationers and otherwise and ii whose name had been registered at muster roll and who has been given a ticket of permanent employee.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
the appellants have not produced any such ticket.
it is not the case of the appellants that they had been working as technical supervisors and clerks in respect of which service book may be maintained instead of issuance of a ticket.
the matter relating to recruitment is governed by the 1973 act and the 1987 rules.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
we have noticed the provisions of the act and the rules.
no case was made out by the appellants herein in their statements of claim that they became permanent employees in terms thereof.
the questions which have been raised before us by dr dhawan had not been raised before the labour court.
the nature of their employment continues save and except a case where a statute interdicts which in turn would be subject to the constitutional limitations.
the submission of mr m n rao to the effect that the principle of equity should be invoked in their case is stated to be rejected.
this case involves 31 employees.
a distinction is sought to be made by dr dhawan that out of them 27 had been appointed to a project and not in a project.
if the appellants were appointed for the purpose of the project they would be deemed to have been appointed therefor and only because such appointments had been made by the respondent would by itself not entitle them to claim permanency.
the life of the project came to an end on 30 6 1997.
the maintenance job upon completion thereof had been taken over by indore municipal corporation.
in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra this court held that once the employees are employed for the purpose of the scheme they do not acquire any vested right to continue after the project is over.
see also karnataka state coop.
we have referred to the said fact only for the purpose of showing that it would not be correct to contend that the appellants had no access to the said documents.
the labour court did not draw any adverse inference.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
considering these facts in our view drawing of an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the years 1991 92 is wholly erroneous on the part of the industrial court and the high court.
we can not but bear in mind the fact that the initial burden of establishing the factum of their continuous work for 240 days in a year rests with the applicants respondents.
equal pay for equal work.
they were not therefore entitled to take the recourse of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work as adumbrated in articles 14 and 39d of the constitution of india.
see orissa university of agriculture technology and another vs manoj k mohanty 2003 5 scc 188 2003 indlaw sc 348.
