these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
act 1992 for short the act in misc.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
the eldest among them harshad section mehta has since expired.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
the misc.
it was directed in case all adult members of the family of late shri harshad metha who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats file an undertaking in this court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the court.
there was no occasion for the custodian to club all the notified entities in one block so as to be termed as harshad mehta group andor to club their assets and liabilities jointly.
mr ashok h desai learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the custodian on the other hand would inter alia submit.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
reliance in this behalf has been placed on b c dalal 2005 indlaw sc 1826 v custodian.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
central calcutta 1972 3 scc 252 1971 indlaw sc 841.
ivthe appellants herein apart from the corporate entity which is a front company of late harshad mehta have received large loans advances and credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees they can not escape their liabilities under the act.
v the assets and liabilities of each of the entities having been audited by the chartered accountants it is evident from the reports that in all cases liabilities exceed the assets.
vithe decretal amount against the harshad mehta group also would exceed rs 4339 crores and thus the assets held by the appellants are wholly insufficient to meet the liabilities.
hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late harshad mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith.
they at this stage can not be permitted to turn round and contend that they have nothing to do with the liabilities of late harshad mehta.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
the act.
section 3 of the act provides for appointment and functions of the custodian.
section 11 of the act reads as under discharge of liabilities.
the right of a person notified to file an application or to raise a defence that he is not liable in terms of the provisions of the act or in any event the properties attached should not be sold in discharge of the liabilities can be taken at the initial stage by filing an application in terms of sub s 2 of section 4 of the act.
constitutionality and or interpretation of the act came up for consideration before this court in harshad shantilal.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
such tax liability may be discharged either under the directions of the special court under section 112c or the taxing authority may recover the same from any subsequently acquired property of a notified person vide tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon 1996 indlaw sc 2403 or in any other manner from the notified person in accordance with law.
so far as question No 4 is concerned this court despite upholding the contention of the custodian that no question of any reopening of tax assessments before the special court would arise and the liability of the notified person to pay the tax will have to be determined under the machinery provided by the relevant tax law observed but the special court can decide how much of that liability will be discharged out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
but if the assessment is a best judgment assessment the special court may examine whether for example the income which is so assessed to tax bears comparison to the amounts attached by the custodian or whether the taxes so assessed are grossly disproportionate to the properties of the assessee in the hands of the custodian applying the wednesbury principle of proportionality.
the appellants herein are notified persons in terms of the provisions of the act.
the act would also have made provision for a subsistence allowance or the like for the notified person.
while a purposive interpretation is permissible where two interpretations are possible the purposive interpretation must be such as preserves the constitutionality of the provision.
iwhether the appellants being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could have been proceeded against in terms of the provisions of the act.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
iiiwhether the tax liabilities could not have been held to be due as the order of assessments did not become final and binding.
the intent and purport of parliament enacting the said act furthermore must be given its full effect.
in fact one of the contentions raised on behalf of the appellants had been that if commercial properties are sold there would be no need to sale the residential properties.
