for the sake of convenience we refer to the facts mentioned in civil appeal no of 2008 arising out of s l p c no 15729 of 2008 filed by j mitra co pvt ltd.
this matter is a classic illustration of the confusion which has emerged on account of the postponement of in part commencement of patents amendment act2005.
quite often the commencement of an act is postponed to some specified future date or to such date as the appropriate government may by notification in the official gazette appoint.
provision is also at times made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
this is what has exactly happened in this case resulting into utter confusion with regard to pending fao no 29306 filed by respondent no 3 in the high court u s 116 of the indian patents.
act1970 as amended by the patents amendment act1999 w e f 26 3 99.
on 14 6 2000 j mitra company pvt ltd.
after scrutiny the said application stood notified by the patent office on 20 11 2004.
we quote herein below ss 25 and 116 as it stood in the year 2000 under the patents amendment act1999 which read as under s 25 opposition to grant of patent.
explanation for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant s claim c that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act d that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed e that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge f that in the case of a convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title.
but on no other ground.
2 where any such notice of opposition is duly given the controller shall notify the applicant and shall give to the applicant and the opponent an opportunity to be heard before deciding the case.
20section 25section.
27section 28section.
suffice it to note that under patents amendment act1999 there was only one right given to a person interested to oppose the grant of patent by filing objections at the pre grant stage.
under the said amendment act1999as stated above vide.
s 116 2.
in 2002the legislature desired an amendment to the law and intended to create an appellate forum to hear appeals against orders passed by the controller consequently patents amendment.
it may be noted that in the said amendment act2002no provision was made pertaining to post grant opposition.
vide s 47 of the patents amendment act2002 entire chapter xix stood substituted.
ss 116 and 117a were reworded which read as under s 116 1 subject to the provisions of this act the appellate board established u s 83 of the trade marks act1999 shall be the appellate board for the purposes of this act and the said appellate board shall exercise the jurisdiction power and authority conferred on it by or under this act.
provided that the technical member of the appellate board for the purposes of this act shall have the qualifications specified in sub s 2.
2 a person shall not be qualified for appointment as a technical member for the purposes of this act unless he.
a has at least five years hold the post of controller under this act or has exercised the functions of the controller under this act for at least five years or.
suffice it to note that ss 116 and 117a were not brought into force.
without giving effect to the amendments to ss 116 and 117a suggested by s 47 of the patents amendment.
act2002on 4 4 2005.
the legislature enacted the patents amendment act2005 even here not all provisions were simultaneously brought into force.
vide s 23 of the patents amendment.
the substituted s 25 reads as under 25 opposition to the patent 1.
where an application for a patent has been published but a patent has not been granted any person may in writing represent by way of opposition to the controller against the grant of patent on the ground a that the applicant for the patent or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim i in any specification filed in pursuance of an application for a patent made in india on or after the 1st day of january1912 or ii in india or elsewhere in any other document c that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the applicant s claim and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the applicant s claim.
3 a where any such notice of opposition is duly given under sub section 2the controller shall notify the patentee.
b on receipt of such notice of opposition the controller shall by order in writing constitute a board to be known as the opposition board consisting of such officers as he may determine and refer such notice of opposition along with the documents to that board for examination and submission of its recommendations to the controller.
on receipt of the recommendation of the opposition board and after giving the patentee and the opponent an opportunity of being heard the controller shall order either to maintain or to amend or to revoke the patent.
5 while passing an order under sub s 4 in respect of the ground mentioned in cl d or cl e of sub section.
this was the major structural change in the patent law.
act2005a dichotomy was brought in between pre grant and post grant opposition orders.
act1999 continued to be in operation notwithstanding the enactment of the patents.
that amended s 117 g is consequential to the enforcement of the jurisdiction of the appellate board u s 64 which results to revocation of patent.
applying the above tests to the present case we find that by patents amendment act2005 for the first time a dichotomy was inserted in the patent law by providing vide s 251 for opposition to pre grant and vide s 25 2 for opposition to post grant of patent.
however the legislature intended that there shall be only one statutory appeal against grant of patent.
