these three appeals by special leave are directed against the order dated september 92004 passed by intellectual property appellate board for shortipab whereby it ordered the removal of appellant s mark infosys from the register of trade marks in respect of computer stationery computer manuals printed matter for computer instructional and teaching materials computer hardware and peripherals and machine and machine tools.
the appellant is infosys technologies limited.
it was incorporated and registered under the companies act1956 on july 21981 in the name of infosys consultants private limited.
the appellant got the trade mark infosys registered in 1987 in classes 16 and 9 in connection with computer stationery computer manuals printed manual for computer instruction and teaching materials computer hardwares computer interface computer peripherals electronics telex interface and in 1988 in class 7 in connection with machine and machine tools and motors not for land vehicles the particulars with reference to the trade mark registered by the appellant are as follows.
on april 211992the name of the company infosys consultants pvt.
limited was changed to infosys technologies pvt.
the first respondent is jupiter infosys limited.
the first respondent was incorporated and registered in september 1978 under the name of jupiter agencies pvt.
the name of the first respondent was changed to jupiter infosys p limited in august1995 and now since july2003the name is changed to jupiter international limited.
on october 111996the appellant instituted a suit in the calcutta high court for perpetual injunction inter alia restraining the first respondent from infringing the appellant s mark infosys by using the mark infosys by itself or in combination with other marks in course of its trade.
the ad interim order was confirmed on november 291996.
on september 132000the calcutta high court restrained the department of company affairs and registrar of companies from incorporating any company bearing the name infosys without the permission of the appellant.
in january 2001the appellant filed yet another suit before the high court of judicature at madras for permanent injunction restraining the first respondent from offering shares to the public as claimed in the initial public offer ipo using infosys.
the single judge of the madras high court passed an interim restraint order on february 12001 against the first respondent.
the 1958 act in o p no 764 of 2001the first respondent prayed for the removal rectification of the entry in the register of trade mark in respect of trade mark no 475269 in class 16 while in the other two applications being o p no 765 of 2001 and o p no 766 of 2001the first respondent prayed for removal rectification of trade mark no 475267 in class 9 and trade mark no 484837 in class 7 respectively.
a whether the mark applied for registration was used in respect of the goods for which the mark was registered.
b whether the respondent had a bonafide intention to use the mark applied for under section 18 of the trade and merchandise marks act.
cwhether the mark registered in favour of the respondent is a service mark.
dwhether there is a non use of registered trade mark by the respondent for a period of over 5 years and 1 month.
ewhether the registered trade mark is disentitled for protection in a court of law under section 11e of the trade and merchandise marks act.
hto what further relief.
the 1958 act was repealed by the trade marks act1999 for shortthe 1999 act in terms of section 100 of the 1999 act the three petitions filed by the first respondent before the madras high court for rectification removal of registered trade mark nos 475269475267 and 484837 were transferred to the ipab.
perused the averments made in the suit and application which are duly supported by documents on record.
accordingly it is directed that pending further consideration of the matter after notice for the next date of hearing the defendants are restrained by themselves their directors employees agents andor others acting on its behalf from using the trade mark corporate name infosys or any other mark name deceptively similar trade mark or colourable imitation thereof as a mark andor corporate name or as part of a mark andor business name in respect of goods andor services for publicity on propaganda on websites and or in domain names in any way whatsoever thereby causing infringement of the registered trade mark infosys of the plaintiff in isolation or in combination with words letters numbers their advertisements as part of their corporate name either in isolation or in goods and services or in or by way of any advertisement publicity campaigns etc.
compliance of order xxxix rule 3 cpc within three days.
the said suit was transferred to the court of the additional district judge tis hazari court delhi.
in that suit an affidavit came to be filed by the first respondent wherein it was stated that the name of the company has been changed from jupiter infosys limited to jupiter international limited and a certificate to that effect has been issued by the registrar of companies kolkata under the companies act1956 and no dispute remains between the parties under the trade mark.
the relevant statement made in the affidavit dated july 142003 we were informed that the date of the affidavit is july 142004 reads as follows that in the meantime the defendant has already changed the trade mark namely jupiter international ltd in place of jupiter infosys ltd the copy of the incorporation on change of name which was issued by the registrar of the companies are being marked and annexed herewith as annexure a that now there is no dispute between the plaintiff and defendant under the trade mark.
the ipab proceeded with the matter in light of the issues that were already framed by the high court and heard the parties.
we heard mr akhil sibal learned counsel for the appellant and mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent at quite some length.
as regards class 9 he would submit that in view of the affidavit filed by the first respondent on july 142004 in the court of additional district judge delhi the first respondent ceases to be an aggrieved person on the date of consideration of the rectification application.
akhil sibal argued that the ipab committed grave error in relying upon the provisions of the 1999 act and the trade marks rules2002 when these provisions were not applicable as the applications were filed under the 1958 act.
according to him the ipab sought to rely upon computer programming which is a service enumerated in class 42without considering the distinction between a computer programme and computer programming and without noticing the entry computer under class 9 which falls within goods.
learned counsel would submit that in examining the question of non use under section 461bthe ipab failed to consider that the requisite use must be in relation to goods under registration which is extensively defined under section 22b of the 1958 act.
akhil sibal learned counsel also argued that the ipab failed to have regard to the proviso to section 461in terms of which it is open to the registered proprietor to rely upon use of the registered trade mark during the relevant period in relation to goods of the same descriptionin order to resist an application for rectification.
in this regard he relied upon m s eagle potteries.
m s eagle flask industries pvt.
sunniwite products ld 1949 66 rpc 84.
the ritz hotel v charles of the ritz 1989.
rpc 333 and australian wine importers trade mark.
learned counsel for the appellant also submitted that in any view of the matter the ipab erred in exercising its discretion under section 46 of the 1958 act without taking into consideration the aspect of public interest.
learned counsel thus submitted that the impugned order is unsustainable and liable to be set aside.
sections 46 and 56 read as follows s 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use   1 subject to the provisions of section.
three sections viz sections 4656 and 69 of the act contain the phrase.
but if the ground for rectification is merely based on non user i e under section 46 of the act that is not really on account of any public mischief by way of an incorrect entry.
hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1 has been followed by this court in a recent decision in the case of kabushiki kaisha toshiba 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
secondly and more importantly during the pendency of the applications certain events had taken place which had some bearing on the question of locus standi of the first respondent insofar as invocation of section 46 1 of the 1958 act is concerned.
the question then arises whether it is sufficient for the applicant to show that he is a person aggrieved when he makes his application or he must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification removal application is finally decided.
