ION Criminal Appeal 89 of 1961.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated December 8 1960 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Appeal No 1782 of 60 and Referred No 125 of 1960 section K Kapur for the appellant G C Mathur and C P Lal for the respondent.
December 19.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RAGUHBAR DAYAL J.
Ram Singh appeals by special leave against the order of the Allahabad High Court dismissing his appeal and confirming 204 his conviction and sentence of death under section 302 IPC by the Session Judge Etawah.
The prosecution case in brief is that due to enmity the appellant caused injuries to Sheo Sahai who was sleeping in his cattle shed in village Bhadurpur Ghar with a sword at about mid night on the night between June 14 15 1960.
Sheo Sahai died of the injuries received.
The appellant thereafter proceeded to the Canal Distributory at some distance from the village and had a bath there.
Later on he went to the Police Station Ekdil nine miles away and lodged a report.
He delivered the sword which has been found by the Serologist to be stained with human blood.
The appellant was taken in custody and as a result of the investigation was sent up for trial The appellant denied the allegation that he had caused the death of Sheo Sahai and alleged that he was falsely accused of the offence.
He alleged that one Paley Singh informed him about the murder of Sheo Sahai and asked him to go to the Police Station Ekdil and to inform the Station Officer orally about the murder.
The appellant adduced no evidence in support of his statement.
The Courts below rightly did not accept his version.
Both the Courts below rightly believed the evidence about the motive and purchase of the sword by the appellant.
205 The learned Sessions Judge believed Ujagar Singh and acted on the extra judicial confession made by the appellant to him.
The High Court however did not rely on this extra judicial confession.
On the other hand learned Counsel for the respondent urged that the High Court was wrong in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s extra judicial confession and that the extra judicial confession together with the circumstances relied on by the High Court fully make out the prosecution case against the appellant.
He also urges that such portions of the report which did not amount to a direct admission of the appellant s striking Sheo Sahai with a sword and thereby causing his death were admissible in evidence.
Ajit Singh bears no enmity with the appellant.
In fact none of the prosecution witnesses is alleged to bear enmity with the appellant.
A receipt about the sale was found on the person of the appellant when he was searched after his arrest.
The appellant s depositing the sword at the Police Station is deposed by Madho Ram PW 12 and by Sri Kishan Singh Station Officer Ekdil PW 16 in whose presence the appellant had dictated the report.
It is therefore not necessary to rely on the admissions of the appellant in the report with respect to these facts deposed to by the various witnesses whose testimony has been rightly accepted.
To us it seems that in the middle of June when the chari and sugar cane crop would not have been very high it seems improbable that Ujagar Singh would have been sleeping in his field or that he should have met the appellant in the manner alleged.
 With respect to the learned Judges these observations are not very consistent.
The learned Judges have not stated those considerations if any in addition to the improbability of Ujagar Singh s presence in his field on account of the crops being not very high which made them doubt the appellant s confessing to Ujagar Singh.
They damage the leaves of the plants and have no partiality for tall plants alone.
In fact the smaller the plants the easier it must be to graze.
The learned Sessions Judge has discussed the criticism urged before him against the acceptance of the statement of Ujagar Singh and considered 208 it for reasons given not to justify the rejection of Ujagar Singh s statement.
It is no doubt unusual as urged for the appellant that a person who commits a murder in pursuance of an enmity arising out of minor disputes would be feeling so justified in his conduct as to openly admit it to the first person he met and to go to the Police Station and report about it.
The learned Sessions Judge has considered the criticism against such a conduct and has held that there were good reasons for Ujagar Singh s not leaving his field whose crops he was watching against the neel gais.
Ujagar Singh went to the village at about 5 am and them told the people of what he had been told by the appellant.
Appeal dismissed.
