Under the Government of India Act 1935 the power to transfer a district judge from one post to another was that of the Governor though that power was always exercised in consultation with the High Court and by and large on the recommendation of the High Court.
Obviously when the Governor promulgated the Orissa Superior Judicial Service Rules 1963 he proceeded on the basis that the power to transfer the district judges and addl.
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
The High Court insisted that ordinarily judicial officers should not hold those posts for more than three years.
The High Court was repeatedly requesting the government to send back judicial officers working in administrative posts as district judges or as addl.
On that account there appears to have been some friction between the High Court and the gov ernment for some years past.
district and sessions judge was posted as joint secretary in the law department in the same month.
Shri PC Dey.
That was a non cadre post.
In February 1965 the High Court took a policy decision to the effect that as a general rule judicial officers working in special posts whether cadre or non cadre outside their regular line should be recalled to the regular line after the completion of three years.
Soon after that decision was rendered and without any further dialogue with government in the  light of that decision the High Court took the precipitate step of transferring the aforementioned officers to other posts and in their place posted officers who were doing judicial work till then.
The High Court overruled the prayer made on behalf of the government to stay the operation of its decision till necessary orders were obtained from this Court.
As mentioned earlier member sales tax tribunal was an ex cadre post.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues with personal information deal with the matter than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
If there is no such agreement it is open to the government to send him back to his parent department at any time it pleases.
RKPS Appeals allowed in part.
