For the purpose of holding election to the .
They prayed for a further direction to be issued to the respondents calling upon them to hold the election after preparing the electoral roll afresh in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Rules.
On December 30 1978 the learned Single Judge before whom the case came up for orders directed the issue of notice of the petition and the stay application to the respondents and issued an interim order directing the respondents not to notify the results of the election under Rule 46 of the Rules pending disposal of the petition.
Aggrieved by the order passed by the High Court Ashok Kumar Mishra and Bhagwat Singh Thakur Petitioners No 1 and 5 respectively in the 494 petition before the High Court filed a petition for special leave to appeal to this Court and Purshottam Lal Sharma petitioner No 6 before the High Court filed another petition.
One of the grounds on which the appellants challenged the validity of the electoral roll the calendar of events and the declaration of results of election was that the entire election process had become vitiated on account of the defect in the notice issued under Rule 1 of the Rules notifying that claims and objections should be preferred within a period of 20 days from the date of the publication of that notice when sub rule 3 of Rule 4 of the Rules prescribed that such claims and objections could be preferred within 30 days from the date of publication of that notice.
It was also alleged that on October 20 1978 34 persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 approached the Deputy Collector to entertain their claim for inclusion in the electoral roll and he refused to receive their applications.
The petitioners were not entitled to any relief under Article 226 of the Constitution on account of the inordinate delay involved in the presentation of the writ petition.
The period prescribed for preferring claims and objections under Rule 43 was 30 days.
It is not the case of the petitioners that they did not know immediately after the publication of such notice that in the said notice a period of 20 days had been mentioned in its preamble as the period within which the claims and objections could be preferred and in paragraph 7 thereof it had been stated that any such claim or objection filed beyond the prescribed period was liable to be rejected.
It was open to them to move the State Government under Rule 6 of the Rules to make an order directing the Collector to follow .
the provisions governing the preparation of the electoral roll.
The final electoral roll was published on November 16 1978.
After November 25 1978 a large number of nominations were received by the Returning officer.
By that time the nominations had all been received.
The writ petition itself was filed on December 28 198 when the poll had to take place on December 31 1978.
We have therefore to proceed on the basis that it was only on December S 1978 for the first time that the attention of the Collector was drawn to the said error and that the writ petition itself was presented on December 28 1978.
No satisfactory reason for the delay was set out in the petition.
We therefore find it unnecessary to deal with the other points urged before us.
