the dispute centres around a fishery called nalban fishery.
a suit for partition was filed by one of the co sharers of said sarkar family in the high court of calcutta on 3 9 1955which was registered as suit no 2539 of 1955 the schedule of properties included the disputed nalban fishery.
a learned single judge of the calcutta high court passed a preliminary decree in the said suit on 11 8 1960 one of the co sharers of the sarkar family preferred an appeal against the preliminary decree before the division bench which was registered as appeal no200 of 1960 during the pendency of the aforesaid appeal the state of west.
bengal requisitioned large extent of fisheries including the disputed nalban fishery on 5 11 1969 in exercise of power under section 31 of the west bengal land requisition and acquisition act of 1948 hereinafter referred to as the requisition act pursuant to the aforesaid requisition order the state of west bengal took possession of the nalban fishery on 8 11 1969 members of the sarkar family challenged the order of requisition by filing a writ petition in calcutta high court in november1969 which was registered as civil rule no 7317 w of 1969 the aforesaid writ petition was dismissed by the learned single judge.
this court dismissed the special leave petition.
the collector 24 parganas took possession of the fisheries including nalban fishery as receiver and submitted a compliance report dated 22 11 1978 to the registrar of this court.
bengal was in fact in possession of the said fishery.
the aforesaid corporation issued an advertisement for auctioning the nalban fishery for a boating complex.
the calcutta high court both the learned single judge as well as the division bench committed serious error of law in directing the receiver to take possession of nalban fishery from the state of west bengal and deliver the vacant possession of the same to the members of the sarkar family.
bengal contended that the state being the owner of nalban fishery and having vested the management and control thereof with the state fishery development corporation and the said corporation having decided to use the tank fishery for a boating complex and the bansilal farms being the highest bidder and having been granted the right to have a boating complex therein and he having invested a huge sum of money his rights can not be taken away in the dispute between the state and the sarkar family.
he further contended that nalban fishery having been vested in the state of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal acquisition act1955the state can not get rid of the direction given by the supreme court to the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree and the nalban fishery being one such fishery the possession thereof was required to be given to the person in whose favour the said fishery has been allotted and therefore the learned single judge as well as the division bench in appeal have rightly issued the directions.
gupta also contended that the receiver assumed possession of the fisheries pursuant to the order of the supreme court dated 6th of november1978 and having submitted a report to that effect on 22 11 1978 indicating that it has taken possession of the nalban fishery.
judged from this view there is no infirmity with the direction issued by the learned single judge as well as division bench of the calcutta high court warranting interference by this court.
gupta also contended that the order of the high court of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 23 9 1980 directing the receiver to allow m s ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots and thereafter carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect thereof has become final the same not having been challenged by the state of west.
bengal and therefore it would not be open for the said state in application for execution of the decree to raise the question of vesting of the nalban fishery with the state and the court would not interfere with the direction given by the learned single judge and division bench of the calcutta high court.
in this connection he had further urged that this question had not been raised before the high court.
in view of the rival submissions at the bar the first question that arises for consideration is whether in the suit for partition amongst the members of the sarkar family which was ultimately disposed of by a compromise decree in this court nalban fishery had been allotted to some members of the sarkar family and whether such decree would affect the rights of the state and bind the state of west.
bengal.
it is also not disputed that the state of west bengal though was not a party to the suit but in course of proceeding before this court by an order of the court the said state of west bengal was impleaded as a party.
bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they are vested in the state under the provisions of west bengal estates acquisition act1953.
it is an undisputed fact that nalban fishery had been requisitioned much prior to the aforesaid decree of this court dated 18 4 1979 and therefore the rights of the state to the fishery either by virtue of the requisition order or by virtue of any provision of any other statute remained protected and as such said state of west.
bengal ca nt be bound down by the so called allotment of fisheries in favour of some members of the sarkar family under the compromise decree in question.
from the report submitted by the receiver it transpired that the district magistrate 24 parganas who was appointed as receiver took possession of several fisheries including nalban fishery obviously on the impression that the lease in respect of the said fishery which had been granted by the sarkar family had lapsed.
from the order in question which has been annexed as annexure p to the special leave petition c no 13314 of 1992it appears that the order was passed on the application on one of the members of sarkar family mr pulak sarkar.
bengal in respect of the nalban fishery as the state was not a party to the proceedings.
besides the direction of the learned judge to the effect the collector24 paraganas is directed to allow messers ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots.
after such demarcation is made the commissioner of partition is directed to approve the same and carry out the direction of the honble supreme court in respect thereof.
does not in any way take away rights of the state of west.
in view of our earlier conclusion that the rights and interest of the state of west bengal was not in any way be affected by the so called partition and allotment of the nalban fishery inter se amongst the members of the sarkar family the said order dated 63 10 1980 passed by the learned single judge of the calcutta high court will not stand on the way of the state in claiming and putting forth its interest and right over the nalban fishery.
by virtue of the extended definition of land in section 2 7 and the amended provisions of section 3a of the land reforms act tank fishery like nalban fishery come within the definition of and it vests in the state by operation of section 31 read with section 14.
in view of our aforesaid conclusions the impugned directions of the learned single judge as well as of the division bench are set aside and these appeals are allowed.
we would further observe that the state should determine the amount of compensation which the sarkar family is entitled to under the relevant provisions of the act under which nalban fishery vests with the state of west bengal and the compensation amount be paid on being determined in accordance with the law to the family members of sarkar family in whose favour nalban fishery had been allotted under the compromise decree by this court.
