facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
p s joaquim dias pw 21 who was attached to the ponda police station as p s i received a phone call at about 10 45 p m from p s i k k desai of the panaji police station that a person named rauji dulba sawant had been brought in police jeep by police constable jaisingrao rane and that while he was being taken to the goa medical college he expired.
he was informed that the deceased had died as a result of stab injuries received and therefore he was to take necessary steps.
during the survey made at the place of occurrence pw 21 noticed some blood stains in the front courtyard of the house and a pipe of length of about 1 foot or slightly less lying in the courtyard having blood stains.
in the meantime pw 1 pw 2 and pw 8 came to the house from whom pw 21 made certain inquiries and brought them along with accused No 3 and her two juvenile girls to the police station.
after reaching the police station a complaint which is marked as exhibit pw 1 a was lodged by pw 1 in which it was alleged that pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 the deceased rauji and his brother narayan were residing in one house in banastari and they used to share a common kitchen between them.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
thereafter the appellant and the two other alleged accused namely accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders gathered in the hall to assault rauji the deceased pw 1 and pw 8.
according to pw 1 in order to avoid the assault by all of them they went to bulcao balcony.
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
at that time the appellant who was holding the knife in his hand handed over the same to accused No 3 by which she assaulted pw 8 but pw 8 caught the knife in her hand which caused injury to her right palm.
at that time pw 2 came there and questioned the accused persons as to what they were doing whereupon the appellant and accused No 2 started assaulting pw 2 also.
in the meanwhile residents of the locality had gathered in the courtyard and told the accused persons not to assault rauji.
accused No 3 then picked up one stone and tried to throw it on rauji by saying that she was going to kill him with that stone.
however pw 1 again intervened and removed the said stone from the hand of accused no 3.
in the meantime police jeep arrived at the scene and on seeing the police jeep all the accused ran away from the courtyard and went inside.
after completion of the arguments the trial court reserved the verdict.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of acquittal the state filed an appeal in the high court against accused nos.
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos.
2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the ipc.
he submitted that although the incident in question had taken place at about 8 45 p m the same came to be reported to the police at 3 00 a m he also submitted that the police officer pw 21 who received the information about the incident started investigation without recording either any general diary for short g d entry or the fir and therefore the fir which has been proved in the trial court is hit by the provisions of section 162 of the criminal procedure code for short the crpc.
he also submitted that the high court has not given any reason for setting aside the appeal against acquittal which was passed after appreciating the entire evidence on record.
he further submitted that there was not only shifting of time of the alleged occurrence but also shifting of the place of occurrence from the hall to the outside verandah and courtyard to suit the convenience of the prosecution case.
a scuffle started between the nephew and the uncle in which the accused persons also received injuries and therefore the right of private defence of the appellant was available and in that view of the matter the order of conviction and sentence is liable to be set aside.
he also submitted that if two views are possible and if there are lacunae in the case of the prosecution the benefit must go to the accused.
he next submitted that there was no evidence on record as to when the fir reached the magistrate and that none of the courts below considered the said aspect.
he submitted that since there was violation of the provisions of section 162 of the crpc the accused appellant is liable to be acquitted.
302 ipc.
counsel for the respondent has therefore taken us through the evidence of pws.
1 2 8 and 18 and on the basis thereof submitted that their evidence clearly prove and establish the role of the appellant herein in stabbing the deceased with the knife which he had brought from the other room with the intention of killing the deceased and therefore it is a clear case of conviction.
in the light of the aforesaid submissions of the counsel appearing for the parties we have given our in depth consideration to the facts of the present case.
at this the deceased became annoyed and the appellant removed the fuse of the electricity which act of his plunged the entire house into darkness.
but in any case there was an electricity light post in the front of the house which was giving enough light to the house.
2 8 18 and the complainant herself pw 1.
he in his deposition specifically stated that he found that the back door as well as the front door of the house were latched from inside and in front of the house there was a road where there was an electricity pole and there was a street tube light by which the house could be visible and even the lights of the vehicles were flashed at the house.
he stated that although the house had electricity connection but was not having the electricity supply.
he gave instructions to his subordinate and also to the people around that nobody should touch any article lying at the scene of occurrence.
on medical examination his injury was found to be simple.
he submitted that since the investigation in the instant case was started by the police without recording an fir such an fir is necessarily hit by the provisions of section 162 of the cr.
investigation in substance means collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence.
but the main object of investigation being to bring home the offence to the offender the essential part of the duties of an investigating officer in this connection is apart from arresting the offender to collect all material necessary for establishing the accusation against the offender.
in the absence of any prohibition in the code express or implied i am of opinion that it is open to a police officer to make preliminary enquiries before registering an offence and making a full scale investigation into it.
if no harassment to the accused results from the action of a police officer how can it be said to defeat the purpose underlying section 5 a looking at the matter this way i hold that what mathur did was something very much short of investigation and therefore the provisions of section 5 a were not violated.
in the instant case it is quite clear from the evidence on record that pw 1 received the information about the death of the deceased from psi of panaji police station without any detail as to how the incident had happened and who had caused the incident.
in order to verify the information received pw 21 went to the place of occurrence and found the entire house in total darkness.
he went around the house and saw blood marks on the walls of the verandah and also in the courtyard and came to learn about the incident by using torch light.
but at a later stage they came there.
after reaching the police station and at the request of pw 1 the fir was recorded at 3 00 a m in the morning.
in animireddy venkata ramana and others v public prosecutor high court of andhra pradesh 2008 5 scc 368 2008 indlaw sc 354 this court while considering a similar case observed as follows 10.
certain basic facts are not denied or disputed.
immediately after the incident hearing cries of passengers the driver of the bus stopped the bus.
in any event the destination of the bus was the said village and they were bound to take the bus thereat.
a report to that effect might have been noted in the general diary but the same could not have been treated to be an fir.
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
duty of the state to protect the life of an injured as also an endeavour on the part of the responsible police officer to reach the place of occurrence in a situation of this nature is his implicit duty and responsibility.
in that view of the matter it can not be said that the fir was in any manner hit by the provisions of section 162 of crpc.
from the evidence on record it does not appear to us that any suggestion was given to the said witness to the effect that the copy of the fir was not sent or that it was dispatched late which if given would have given an opportunity to the witness to afford some explanation or to show as to when the fir was sent to and received by the magistrate.
in that view of the matter we do not agree with the counsel appearing for the appellant that delay in transmitting the fir to the magistrate stands proved in the present case.
blood was found by the police on the wall of the verandah and in the courtyard.
besides all the aforesaid eye witnesses were inmates of the house and they would know as to who had given the blows for they specifically stated that initially the appellant did not have the knife in his hand but when the deceased and others went to the balcony then he went inside the house and brought a knife with which he gave stab injuries to the deceased which became fatal and as a result of which the deceased died while he was being taken to the hospital.
in law testimony of an injured witness is given importance.
but if after careful analysis and scrutiny of their evidence the version given by the witnesses appears to be clear cogent and credible there is no reason to discard the same.
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
however a perusal of record clearly shows that the doctor who conducted the postmortem pw 7 stated in his evidence that there were in total 16 injuries when external examination was done by him and the knife m o 11 could have caused the injuries No 1 2 3 and 4.
he further stated that the death was caused due to hemorrhage and shock as a result of stab injury.
he further stated that injury No 1 was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
all the contentions raised by learned counsel appearing for the appellant were considered by us in the light of evidence on record.
section 299 defines culpable homicide as the act of causing death i with the intention of causing death or ii with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or iii with the knowledge that such act is likely to cause death.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
if that is caused in any of the aforesaid three circumstances the offence of culpable homicide is said to have been committed.
it has been repeatedly held by this court that culpable homicide is the genus and murder is species and that all murders are culpable homicide but not vice versa.
i and if it is only a case of knowledge and not the intention to cause murder and bodily injury then the same would be a case of section 304 part ii.
in the case of state of a p v rayavarapu punnayya 1976 4 scc 382 1976 indlaw sc 192 this court observed as follows at page 386 12.
in the scheme of the penal code culpable homicides is genus and murder its specie.
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304.
b of section 299 corresponds with cls 2 and 3 of section 300.
if the assailant had no such knowledge about the disease or special frailty of the victim nor an intention to cause death or bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death the offence will not be murder even if the injury which caused the death was intentionally given.
b of section 299 the words sufficient in the ordinary course of nature have been used.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
b of section 299 conveys the sense of probable as distinguished from a mere possibility.
for cases to fall within clause 3 it is not necessary that the offender intended to cause death so long as the death ensues from the intentional bodily injury or injuries sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
in virsa singh v state of punjab4.
1958 indlaw sc 82 vivian bose j speaking for the court explained the meaning and scope of cl.
first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved.
illustration c appended to section 300 clearly brings out this point.
c of section 299 and cl.
4 of section 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the act causing death.
it is not necessary for the purpose of this case to dilate much on the distinction between these corresponding clauses.
in most cases their observance will facilitate the task of the court.
but sometimes the facts are so intertwined and the second and the third stages so telescoped into each that it may not be convenient to give a separate treatment to the matters involved in the second and third stages.
2009 indlaw sc 859.
as already noted it is quite clear from the record that there was an altercation preceding the incident.
initially the accused appellant also did not have any weapon with him but during the course of the incident he went inside and got a knife with the help of which he stabbed the deceased.
in his cross examination has categorically stated that death due to stab injury was in consequence of injury No 1 and all other injuries were superficial in nature.
factually therefore there was only one main injury caused due to stabbing and that also was given on the back side of the deceased and therefore it can not be said that there was any intention to kill or to inflict an injury of a particular degree of seriousness.
accordingly we convict the appellant under section 304 part ii of ipc and sentence him to undergo imprisonment for a period of 7 years.
his bail bonds shall stand cancelled and the appellant shall surrender immediately to serve out the remaining period of sentence.
if however the appellant does not surrender by himself the state shall take necessary steps to rearrest him to undergo the remaining part of sentence.
appeal disposed of.
