Appeal No 949 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 11 1964 of the Madras High Court in Tax Case No 181 of 1962.
M C Chagla and B R Agarwala for the appellant.
CJ V Ramaswami and A N Grover JJ.
Entries relating to interest were posted till the end of Samvat Year 2006 in the account on the amount due at the foot of the account.
A bad and doubtful debt in respect of a business other than banking or money lending is allowable even if it is not in respect of loan  but a debt due in the course of the business of a money lending is not allowable unless it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of his business.
 The two branches of the question as reframed then are 1 Whether the debt or any part thereof is in respect of loans made 419 in the ordinary course of money lending business of the appellants and 2 whether the debt or any part thereof is in respect of the other business of the appellants.
Counsel said that 1 Sobhagchand Amarchand partner of the Bombay firm is the father of Seshmal one of the partners of the appellants and of the minors Ramniklal and Lakshmichand who are admitted to the benefits of partnership 2 that large amounts of money were advanced shortly before the Bombay firm closed its business and 3 that there was a consistant practice for paying or receiving interest on the 420 amounts due at the foot of the account but no interest was charged by the appellants in respect of the dues at the foot of the account at the end of Samvat Years 2007 and 2008.
In appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the Income tax Officer.
At the hearing of the appeal this Court found that the tribunal s order was very brief and that it gave no reasons in support of its conclusions.
Having considered all the circumstances of the case we are of the opinion that the sums in question were not sent to the Bombay firm as loans made in the ordinary course of the money lending business of the assessee nor in respect of any other business of the assessee.
