Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 14 6 1967 of the Mysore High Court in Writ Petition No 44065.
In the case before us the petitioner admits that the Mysore State Civil Services Integration Rules provided for filing of objections against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniori ty list.
Presumably he had that opportunity.
His grievance seemed to be that he was not heard after the final list was prepared.
We are unable to appreciate.
Hence the principle recognised in Shankariah s case supra was not applicable to such a case.
 1 from which learned Counsel thought the following observations could perhaps be cited on behalf of the petitioner respondent at p 202 it was argued by Mr Ashoke Sen that in regard to both these matters the respond ents have a right of representation and the final gradation list should have been pub lished after giving them further oppor tunity to make a representation.
830 we hold that the combined final gradation list dated April 6 1962 so far as category 6 is concerned is ultra vires and illegal and that part of the notification alone must be quashed by grant of a writ in the nature of certiorari.
All that is done is that certain principles are applied in the preparation of the list.
But once he has had that opportunity it cannot possibly be said that he should have a further opportunity against even a final seniority list.
If he was to have that opportunity the list would not really be final but only provisional or preliminary.
It was an opportunity to be given before the final list was to be declared and published as a final list.
A right to representation was recognised as existing at time when the list was still to be considered as not finalised presumably because some mistakes had crept in due to want of heating on two points.
In that particular case the fist had been prepared without due regard to the particular important points which had to be considered before finalisation.
GR Prabhavalkar  Ors.
1 where it was held by this Court at p 2106 1 AIR 1973 Sc 2102 at 2106.
It has also to give a full and fair opportuni ty to the parties affected to make their representations and the Central Government has also to give a proper consideration to those representations.
It was also held there at p 2106 It is no doubt true that the Central Government must have due regard to the princi ples enunciated by it in consultation with the States for the purpose of equation Of posts.
It must not only give an opportunity to the concerned officers to make representations but it must also give those representations a proper consideration.
