Appeal No 1713NT of 1973.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee his father for the gift of Rs25000 made to him and Rs50000 gifted to his son.
But it appears that it was admitted position that Tika Ram  Sons had a cash balance of Rs4000 only on 111957 and it did not have any overdraft facilities with any bank.
But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
34 and 5 were answered in the negative.
Aggrieved by the said decision the revenue has come up in appeal.
But in the cases of non banking companies or firms if these companies or firms do not have overdraft facilities it is not possible to make valid gift if sums or funds are not available.
But in such cases 127 merely books entries would not suffice.
Commis sioner of Income Tax Poona vs Dharsey Keshavji 143 ITR 509 and Commissioner of Income Tax Poona vs Devichand Uttamchand In the background of facts of those cases the Bombay High Court held that the gifts were valid.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
He had large assets but these were represented by land buildings plant machinery and stock in trade.
C s wife withdrew various sums of money from time to time from the interest account and whenever C desired to retransfer amounts to his capital account he obtained let ters of consent from her.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
Balance of the firm was only Rs 15.
In Commissioner of Wealth Tax vs Gulab Rai Govind Pra sad there was an alleged gift of Rs2 lakhs to minor son by book entries.
Cash Balance was only Rs7626.
No acceptance was produced.
But the Allahabad High Court in the case of Gopal Raj Swarup vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax Lucknow supra had to deal with the wealth tax.
If the possession enjoyment or benefit of the donor in the property was consistent with the facts and circumstances of the case other than those of the factum of gift it could not be said that the donee had not retained the possession and enjoyment of the property to the entire exclusion of the donor or to the entire exclusion of the donor in any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
As the respondent is not appearing there will be no order as to costs.
