it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
it was further held that the greater part of the improvements were affected by the appellant after the proceedings in the l c case No 112 of 1100 m e were stayed as such it can not be said that these improvements could have been effected in good faith.
it may be stated that the finding that the possession of the appellant commenced after his application for registration was rejected in 1919 and the improvements if any must have been effected only thereafter with full knowledge that the title to the lands was in dispute between the illom and the government is unassailable.
forfeiture under this section shall be disposed of as the division peishkar may direct.
it is stated before us that at the time when the appellant was evicted the transfer of property act was not in force.
the products of a farm may include the increase of cattle on the premises.
this vicarious and altruistic exhibition of good intention may even cause damage to the land of an owner who may not want improvements of such a kind as tree plantation.
before the privy council it was contended on behalf of the appellant that in the various cases relied upon there was at least some genuine claim or belief in the party erecting the buildings that he had a title to do so even though he was eventually held to be a trespasser and it was urged that no such claim or belief existed in that case in which it was said the government without any pretence of a right tortuously invaded the appellant 's property and proceeded to deal with it as their own.
the board however agreed with what was apparently the view of both courts in india that under the circumstances of this case as already set forth by the law of india which they appear to have correctly interpreted the government officials were in possession not as mere trespassers but under such a colour of title that the buildings erected by them on the land ought not to be included in the valuation as having become the property of the landowner.
the appellant 's claim after he was evicted can not on the same parity of reasoning be held to be valid.
with those specified in that section to all of which the process of becoming ripe and of being cut gathered made and laid up when ripe was incidental.
it was contended that the defendant 's action was justified under the statute ii g 2 c 19 section 8 which after enumerating certain crops empowered the landlord to seize as a distress any other product whatsoever which shall be growing on any part of the estate demised and therefore the trees and shrubs in question came within that description.
the court rejected the contention that the trees and shrubs could be detrained and held that the word product in the eighth section of the statute did not extend to trees and shrubs growing in a nurseryman 's ground but that it was confined to products of a similar nature.
the contention of the appellant that the trees which are the subject matter of the appeal should have been forfeited by an order passed under section 9 of the act and in the absence of such.
an order his right to the value of those trees had to be adjudged and paid.
as it has now been contended before us.
in it has been held that the appellant was not a mere trespasser and had deliberately entered upon the lands knowing full well that he had no right claim or title to the lands or had in any manner a right to enter the land and has been rightly evicted as a trespasser he can not now be permitted to raise this contention before us.
it is then contended that even if trees are not included in section 9 and no notice of forfeiture is necessary under the general law even a trespasser on the land whether bona fide or not is entitled to compensation or damages for the improvements made by him on the land.
it was observed by the trial court that though there is no specific evidence to show when exactly the possession of the appellant had commenced the evidence however indicated that it must have started close to the year i 100 m e and that in any case the claim of the appellant that possession was from 1030 m e was not true inasmuch as from the year 1067 m e when the act was passed possession without permission was penal and it could not be imagined that the appellant was left in peace for all these long years.
the issues that had been famed by the trial court also do not refer to this aspect.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
the learned advocate for the appellant has reiterated the submissions made before the trial court and the high court and contends that there is no order forfeiting the improvements as required under section 9 of the act and if section 9 does not apply and there is no right of forfeiture as contemplated under section 9 then the appellant is entitled to compensation under the general law.
the trial court also held that all through these long years there had been a dispute as to the title between the illom and the state and after the suit of the illom was dismissed and the illom 's title was not sustained the allegation that the improvements were effected can not be stated to be bona fide.
this finding is fortified by section 5 of the act which provides that from and after the commencement of the act it shall not be lawful for any person to occupy land which is the property of the government whether poramboke or not without the permission from the government or such officer of the government as may be empowered in that behalf.
need be given under section 9 of the act and therefore no compensation or damages were payable in respect thereof.
the high court issued a commission for inspecting the properties and the commissioner in his report part 13 of ext.
this view of ours is supported by the case of clark and another v gaskarth 8 taunt 431.
that was a case of a trespass for breaking and entering the closes of the plaintiffs and tearing up digging up cutting down and carrying away the plaintiff 's trees plants roots and seeds growing on the closes.
in any case as the high court rightly observed the position of a trespasser can not be better than that of a lawful tenant who having lost his possession can not claim compensation or damages for anything erected on the land or any improvements made therein.
in these circumstances the question that would arise for determination is whether the trees come within the description of other product raised on the land.
126 of 1096.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
there were other allegations also but it is unnecessary for purposes of this appeal to refer to them.
against that order a civil miscellaneous appeal No 206 of 1110 m e 1934 35 a d was filed in the high court of travancore.
the case of vallabdas narainji v development officer bandra a i r 1929.
p c 163 1929 indlaw pc 11 which was cited by the learned counsel for the appellant does not assist him for the privy council did not think it necessary to give a decision on what it termed to be a far reaching contention.
it observed that the evidence in the case indicated that the possession of the father of the appellant must have commenced close to the year 1100 m e and consequently the claim of the appellant that lie was in possession from 1030 m e can not be true.
in that suit an injunction was prayed for in respect of 100 acres of the property involved in the suit but the prayer was rejected.
it is however urged before us that the high court was in error in thinking that the appellant did not occupy the lands as a trespasser with a bona fide claim of title because it was his case that he trespassed upon the land with a bona fide intention to improve the land and as such he can still be considered as a bona fide trespasser entitled to improvements under the general law.
in the view we have taken the appeal has no substance and is accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs but the court fee will be recovered from the appellant.
but this is not relevant as what has to be considered is whether trees can be said to be other product raised on the land.
