if a review application is allowed and the price of the bulk drug is raised and if in the meanwhile the formulation had been ordered to be sold at a low price it may result in considerable loss to the manufacturer.
he was required to report this price to the central government within two weeks of the commencement of the order and was further prohibited from increasing the price without obtaining the approval of the central government.
that it was enough compliance with the constitutional mandate if the basis adopted for price fixation was not shown to be so patently unreasonable as to be in excess of the power to fix the price.
the grievance of the manufacturers in the writ petitions that they were not furnished the details of the basis of the price fixation was not correct since full information was furnished at the time of the hearing of the review applications when the matter underwent thorough and detailed discussion between the parties and the government as well as the bureau of industrial costs and prices.
section 32c of the act we have already seen enables the central government to make an order controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold if the central government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or in securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices.
the hathi committee considered that units other than mrtp units having only turnover of less than rs 1 crore may be exempted from price control.
paragraph 17 requires the government to maintain the drugs prices equalization account to which shall be credited by the manufacturer among other items the excess of the common selling price or as the case may be pooled price over his retention price.
we think that if there is any grievance on that score the proper thing for the manufacturers to do is bring it to the notice of the government in their applications for review.
paragraph 15 empowers the government to revise prices of formulations.
we do not consider that there is anything unfair in the procedure adopted by the government.
section 33c provides for the ascertainment of the price.
he observed we think that unless by the terms of a particular statute or order price fixation is made a quasi judicial function for specified purposes or cases it is really legislative in character in the type of control order which is now before us because it satisfies the tests of legislation.
new bulk drug means a bulk drug manufactured within the country for the first time after the commencement of this order.
by way of an explanation efficient manufacturer is defined to mean a manufacturer i. whose production of such bulk drug in relation to the total production of such bulk drug in the country is large or ii who employs efficient technology in the production of such bulk drug.
it provides that in calculating the amount to be paid for the commodity required to be sold regard is to be had to a the minimum price if any fixed for sugarcane by the central government under this section b the manufacturing cost of sugar c the duty or tax if any paid or payable thereon and d the securing of a reasonable return on the capital employed in the business of manufacturing sugar.
before we turn to the terms of the drugs prices control.
the submission of shri anil diwan learned counsel for the respondents was that unlike other price control legislations the drugs prices control order was designed to induce better production by providing for a fair return to the manufacturer.
while section 32c contemplates an order of a general nature section 33c contemplates a specific transaction.
one of the submissions of shri diwan was that in calculating net worth the cost of new works in progress and the amount invested outside the business were excluded from free reserves and that such exclusion could not be justified on any known principle of accountancy.
this court is not a tribunal for relief from the crudities and inequities of complicated experimental economic legislation.
paragraph 14 contains some general provisions regardingprices of formulations.
it is to be noticed here that the payment to be made under section 33c is not necessarily the same as the controlled price which may be fixed under section 32c of the act.
the order made under section 32c which is not in respect of a single transaction nor directed to particular individual is clearly a legislative act while an order made under section 33c which is in respect of a particular transaction of compulsory sale from a specific individual is a non legislative act.
the second observation we wish to make is legislative action plenary or subordinate is not subject to rules of natural justice.
a provision for such enquiry as it thinks fit by a subordinate legislating body we have explained earlier is generally an enabling provision to facilitate the subordinate legislating body to obtain relevant information from any source and it is not intended to vest any right in any body other than the subordinate legislating body.
panipat sugar and anakappalle society were again referred to and it was pointed out that those cases turned on the language of section 33c of the essential commodities act.
despite the pressing invitation of shri diwan to go into facts and figures and his elaborate submissions based on facts and figures we have carefully and studiously refrained from making any reference to such facts and figures as we consider it outside our province to do so and we do not want to set any precedent as was supposed to have been done in premier automobiles though it was not so done and therefore needed explanation in later cases.
it was submitted that the provision for an enquiry preceding the determination of the price of a bulk drug the prescription in paragraph 3 cl 2 that the average cost of production of the drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer should be taken into account and that a reasonable return on networth should be allowed and the provision for a review of the order determining the price established that price fixation under the drugs prices control.
the provision for such enquiry as it thinks fit is generally an enabling provision intended to facilitate the subordinate legislating body to obtain relevant information from all and whatever source and not intended to vest any right in any one other than the subordinate legislating body.
b bad debts and provisions.
but we do not totally deny ourselves the jurisdiction to enquire into the question in appropriate proceedings whether relevant considerations have gone in and irrelevant considerations kept out of the determination of the price.
for example if the legislature has decreed the pricing policy and prescribed the factors which should guide the determination of the price we will if necessary enquire into the question whether the policy and the factors are present to the mind of the authorities specifying the price.
in rameshchandra kachardas porwal v state of maharashtra 1981 2 scc 722 1981 indlaw sc 423 it was observed that legislative activity did not invite natural justice and that making of a declaration that a certain place shall be a principal market yard for a market area under the relevant agricultural produce markets acts was an act legislative in character.
the union of india has preferred these appeals by special leave of this court against the judgment of the high court.
in prag ice oil mills v union of india 1978 3 scc 459 1978 indlaw sc 472 a constitution bench of seven judges of this court had to consider the validity of the mustard oil price control.
it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
referring to shri meenakshi mills the learned cj reaffirmed the approval accorded to the statement in secretary of agriculture v central reig refining company supra that courts of law could not be converted into tribunals for relief from the crudities and inequities of complicated experimental economic legislation.
he also reaffirmed the proposition that price fixation was in the nature of a legislative measure and could not give rise to a complaint that natural justice was not observed.
we do not propose to delve into the question whether there has been any such arbitrary assumption of facts and figures.
it was also reiterated that the decision in shree meenakshi mills case was based on a special agreement between the parties and therefore had no relevance to the question before them.
this means that until the maximum sale price of an indigenously manufactured bulk drug is fixed under paragraph 3 of the 1979 order the price fixed under paragraph 4 of the 1970 order or the price permitted under paragraph 5 of the 1970 order was to be maximum sale price.
order 1970 and was not included in the schedule to that order.
order was abandoned in the 1979 order.
the union of india is entitled to the costs of the appeal and the writ petition in the high court.
in the present case on ex parte interim order was made on april 20 1981 in the following terms in the meanwhile on the petitioners giving an undertakings to maintain prices both for bulk and formulation as were prevailing prior to the impugned notification we stay implementation of the impugned bulk drug prices as well as formulation prices.
the drugs prices control order 1970 defined bulk drugs as follows bulk drugs means any unprecessed phamaceutical chemical biological and plant product or medicinal gas conforming to pharmacopocial or other standards accepted which is used as such or after being processed into formulations and includes an essential bulk drug.
1 scc 468 1973 indlaw sc 291 a notification fixing the ex factory price of certain counts of cotton yarn was questioned on the ground that the price had been arbitrarily fixed.
after referring to hari shanker bagla v state of madhya pradesh 1955 1 scr 380 1954 indlaw sc 135 union of india v bhanamal gulzarimal 1960 2 scr 627 1959 indlaw sc 127 sri krishna rice mills v joint director food 1965 indlaw sc 93 unreported state of rajasthan v nathmal and mithamal 1954 scr 982 1954 indlaw sc 66 narendra kumar v union of india 1960 2 scr 375 1959 indlaw sc 61 panipat co operative sugar mills v union of india 1973 1 scc 129 1972 indlaw sc 155 anakapalle co operative agricultural industrial society ltd v union of india.
2 scr 526 1971 indlaw sc 291 a constitution bench of the court observed that the dominant object and the purpose of the legislation was the equitable distribution and availability of commodities at fair price and if profit and the producer 's return were to be kept in the forefront it would result in losing sight of the object and the purpose of the legislation.
order 1977 an order made in exercise of the powers conferred upon central government by the essential commodities act.
in the case of bulk drugs which were not included in the schedule a manufacturer was entitled to continue to market the product at the same price at which he was marketing the products at the time of the commencement of the order.
it is provided that the amount credited to the drugs prices equalization account shall be spent for paying to the manufacturer the shortfall between his retention price and the common selling price or as the case may be the pooled price.
accordingly to the learned counsel the very delay in the disposal of review applications was sufficient to vitiate the entire proceeding and scheme of price fixation.
it is contended that the government is a well verse litigant as compared with private litigants and even if there is justification of adopting a liberal approach in condoning delay in the case of private litigants there was no need to adopt such approach in the case of the government.
we are satisfied that the procedure followed by the government in furnishing the requisite particulars at the time of the hearing of the review applications is sufficient compliance with the demands of fair play in the case of the class of persons claiming to be affected by the fixation of maximum price under the drugs prices control order.
we think that in matter of this nature where prices of essential commodities are fixed in order to maintain or increase supply of the commodities or for securing the equitable distribution and availability at fair prices of the commodity it is not right that the court should make any interim order staying the implementation of the notification fixing the prices.
similarly where expenses have been legitimately incurred and allowed by income tax authorities there was no justification for excluding those items of expenditure from the cost.
apart from the fact that an appeal is ordinarily considered to be a continuation of the original proceeding in the present case we notice that further orders of the supreme court were also in contemplation and such further orders could only be if appeals were preferred to the supreme court.
in the case of formulations the hathi committee felt that the principle of selectivity could be introduced in terms of a the size of the units b selection of items and c controlling the prices only of market leaders in particular of products for which price control is contemplated.
who delivered a separate opinion for himself and for desai j agreed that the judgment in premier automobiles was not to provide a precedent in price fixation case.
