ultimately the chief engineer of the board took action against the respondent and discharged him from service with effect from 31 3 1974 by his letter dated may 271974.
the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the officers of the board and the respondent clearly show that the respondent disobeyed the order of transfer and he remained absent from duty in an unauthorised manner without obtaining sanction of leave.
the respondent as well as the appellant board both preferred letters patent appeals against the order of learned single judge.
while he was posted at surat as deputy engineer he was transferred to ukai subdivision under the order of the superintending engineer dated 29th march1974 pursuant to the order of transfer he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974 to enable him to join at ukai.
no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place.
before this power is exercised two conditions must be satisfied firstly the employee must be found to be absent from duty without leave or overstaying the period of sanctioned leave and secondly he failed to join his duty even after a warning.
the respondent joined service as technical assistant with the gujarat state electricity board hereinafter refined to as the board he was promoted to the post of deputy engineer.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
a learned single judge of the high court quashed the order of termination on the findings that the order of discharge was issued m violation of the basic principles of natural justice as no opportunity was afforded to the respondent before discharging him from services under regulation no 113.
the learned single judge granted a declaration in respondent 's favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back wages.
aggrieved the appellant has preferred the instant appeal after obtaining special leave of this court.
there is no dispute that the respondent received the aforesaid letter as he sent a reply to the superintending engineer on april 201974a copy of which was annexed as annexure j by the petitioner to his petition before the high court.
transfer from one place to other is generally a condition of service and the employee has no choice in the matter.
there is presumption of service of a letter sent under registered cover if the same is returned back with a postal endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
the respondent lost his service as he refused to comply with the order of his transfer from one place to the other.
regulation 113 confers wide powers on the authorities to summarily discharge an employee from service if he continues to be absent from duty in an unauthorised manner and refuses to join his duty even after warning.
the respondent acted in an irresponsible manner in not complying with the order of transfer which led to his discharge from service in accordance with the service regulation.
the division bench upheld the order of the learned single judge holding the order of discharge illegal and void but it set aside the order of the learned single judge refusing to grant consequential relief instead it directed the appellants to reinstate the respondent and to treat him in service without any break in service and to grant him benefits of increments seniority and promotion to which he may be entitled under the rules.
the division bench of the high court has held that since no warning was issued to the respondent action taken under service regulation no 113 was not in accordance with law.
no new plea had been raised by the board before the division bench instead the plea relating to service of the aforesaid letter had already been before the learned single judge.
the chief engineer discharged the respondent from service as he had continued to remain absent from duty w e f. march 301974 to may 271974.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
no 113 the letter is as under gujarat electricity board o m division nana varchha road surat.
after hearing learned counsel for the parties we were satisfied that the learned single judge as well as the division bench both had committed error in allowing the writ petition and granting relief to the respondent.
in this view we are of the opinion that the division bench was totally wrong in holding that no opportunity was afforded to the respondent to meet the case set up by the board that the letter dated 24 4 1974 was served on the respondent.
we do not agree with the view taken by the division bench.
this finding is wholly misconceived.
in determining the question whether any warning was given to the respondent it is necessary to refer to the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the appellants and the respondent.
you have been relieved on 30 3 1974 a n on account of your transfer from surat to ukai but you have not reported to ukai till today and remained on unauthorised absence on relief which is breach of s r no 112 and 113 please submit your explanation as to why action should not be taken against you for disobeying order of superior and breach of s r no 112 and 113 within 7 days from receipt of this letter.
mere denial made by the respondent in the circumstances of the case was not sufficient to rebut the presumption relating to service of the registered cover.
if he fails to proceed on transfer in compliance to the transfer order he would expose himself to disciplinary action under the relevant rules as has happened in the instant case.
now since the order of discharge is held to be valid the amount paid to the respondent is liable to be recovered from him but having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case and the hardship which could be caused to the respondent we direct the appellant not to recover the amount already paid to the respondent.
