the discretion exercised by the court must be judged in the light of the facts and circumstances the appellant having used the trade mark it does not lie in the mouth of the appellant to contend that he is not a permitted user or a bona fide user of the trade mark.
the central government is empowered to prevent trafficking in trade mark.
there must be real trade connection between the proprietor of the trade and licensee of the goods and the intention to use the trade mark must exist at the date of the application for registration of trade mark and such intention must be genuine and bona fide and continue to subsist in order to disprove the charge of trafficking in trade mark.
the respondents entered into an agreement with sudhir kumar sen on november 31948 to render technical know how to the indian company to be formed which would manufacture bicycles and market them under raleigh 's indian trade marks.
on march 281978joint application by sen raleigh and the appellant duly signed by the respondent as proprietor and sen raleigh limited as registered user came to be made before the registrar of trade marks.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.
on march 241982the appellant made an application under sections 3246 and 56 of the act against the respondents in the high court of calcutta in suit no 26692 pleading inter alia that the respondents had failed to provide technical assistance by passing the technical know how to sen raleigh after november 11976 neither the appellant nor sen raleigh were registered users of the trade mark after november 11976.
u s 482 of the act up to the date of one month before filing that rectification application.
on october 241980sen raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant corporation by publication of the notification under idr act.
the agreement dated december 291962 was modified and the respondents were given option to terminate the agreement.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
he further contended that the special circumstances enumerated in sub s 3 of s 46 must be such that the respondents had intended to use the registered trade mark.
it is true as held by this court that to get a trade mark registered without any intention to use it in relation to any goods but merely to make money out of it by selling it to others the right to use it as a commodity would be trafficking in that trade mark.
it is contended that the registered user must be understood to be the user by the proprietor or authorized user registered under section 48 the period of 5 years should be computed from that date of expiry of registered user.
it appears that even an unregistered licensee so long as there is unbroken connection in the course of the trade between the licensor and the passing off lincesee 's goods under the trade mark there would be sufficient connection in the course of the trade between the proprietor and bona fide user of the trade mark by unregistered user.
it is his pivotal contention that undisputedly when the respondent was not in urge of trade mark as a registered proprietor or its agent sen raleigh as permitted user for a period of 5 years immediately preceding the date of the application u s 46 for removal of the trade mark from the register there was no bona fide user thereof in relation to those goods by the proprietor himself.
it would therefore be clear that a permitted use of the trade mark should be done under sub s 1 of section 48 it.
it would thus be apparent that subject to section 46for a registered trade mark up to date within one month before the date of making application for rectification for a continuous period of 5 years or longer if registered trade mark had not been use during that period there was no bona fide user in relation to those goods by the proprietor thereof for the time being.
the question then is whether the discretion has been properly exercised by both the division bench as well the single judge in refusing to take off the trade mark from the register by striking off trade mark from the register of the registrar of trade marks.
s 48 1 envisages that subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as a registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as defensive trade mark.
it was therefore not a case of getting the trade mark registered under the predecessor act and continuing under the act for trafficking of the trade mark.
the high court in our view declined for good reasons to rectify the trade mark under section act b of the act.
46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use 1.
subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a xxx xxx xxx xxx b that up to a date of one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being.
s 48 provides for registered users which reads thus 48 registered users 1 subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark but the central government may by rules made in this behalf provide that no application for registration as such shall be entertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks 2 permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be use by the proprietor thereof and shall be used by a person the proprietor for the purpose of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.
the permitted use of trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the proprietor thereof and shall be deemed no to be used by a person other than the proprietor for the purpose of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under the act or any other law.
the question is whether the trade connection exists to dispel the charge of trafficking in the trade mark.
in view of the diverse contentions the question arises whether the high court was right in refusing to rectify and strike off the trade marks of the respondents from the register of trade marks.
in the absence of such a findings the high court was wrong in law in refusing to rectify the trade mark and striking it off the register.
it is a question of fact in every case.
the admitted facts are that the respondents through their agents had registered trade mark raleigh and other trade marks 12 marks under the indian merchandise marks act1889 4 of 1989 and the trade marks act1940 5 of 1940 the trade and merchandise marks act1958 43 of 1958 for short the act which came into force with effect from october 31958 has repealed the predecessor act and now the act is in operation.
it would also be considered as a special circumstance for non user.
it is not relevant for the purpose of s 461b whether the bicycles were manufactured with the assistance of technical know how passed on by sen raleigh or the permitted user.
ordinarily however the mark will be expunged taken off when the factual circumstances necessary for the removal are established unless it is shown that the case comes within the exceptions provided in the sub section 3 the high court refused to exercise the discretion to strike off the trade mark from the register.
though there was a ban on impart of the raleigh cycles manufactured outside india and passed off under the registered mark of the respondents as a registered proprietor the circumstances do not attracted sub section 3 of s 46 to relieve the respondents to establish non user but on the facts of this case we have the admitted position that sen raleigh admittedly was a registered user through which the appellant had bona fide used the registered trade mark of the registered proprietor there is no discontinuance or non use of the trade mark by the respondent to establish the special circumstances in this case.
suffice it to hold that subs 3 of s 46.
is not attracted to the facts in this case.
