the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
jt 2004 6 sc 110 2004 indlaw sc 606 a three judge bench of this court of which we were members upon taking into consideration a large number of decisions held although we do not intend to express any opinion as to whether the cooperative society is a state within the meaning of article but it is beyond any cavil of doubt that the writ petition will be maintainable when the action of the cooperative society is violative of mandatory statutory provisions.
the learned counsel would submit that in fact no appointment letter was issued to the appellants.
the state has not created any post nor they could do so on their own.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
no notification has been brought to our notice that the standard standing orders had been made applicable to the appellants.
it is accepted that no appointment letter was issued in favour of the appellants.
the learned counsel would submit that the sufficient materials were brought on records to show that vacancies were available and as the appellants worked for a period of more than six months they became permanent employees in terms of the act.
it is also not in dispute that the state government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the adhiniyam has made rules known as m p development authority services officers and servants recruitment rules 1987.
the posts of sub engineers in which the appellants were appointed.
they having come to learn that certain vacancies exist in the respondent authority applied therefor although no advertisement in that behalf was issued.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
the constitutional scheme which the country has adopted does not contemplate any backdoor appointment.
section 76b provides for constitution of development authorities service.
it was further contended that as the respondents despite direction to produce documents including the offers for appointment did not produce the same an adverse inference should have been drawn against them by the high court.
the questions which have been raised before us by dr dhawan had not been raised before the labour court.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
they were not appointed in terms of the provisions of the statute.
jt 2004 8 sc 531 2004 indlaw sc 729 a division bench of this court opined no person illegally appointed or appointed without following the procedure prescribed under the law is entitled to claim that he should be continued in service.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
provisions section 22 of the 1961 act.
application of the act and the rules.
sub s 2 of section 6 reads as under where immediately before the commencement of this act standing order are in force in respect of any undertaking such standing orders shall until standard standing orders are applied to such undertaking under sub section 1 continue in force as if they were made under this act.
a daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.
we have noticed the provisions of the act and the rules.
they might have been subjected to the provisions of the employees provident fund and might have been granted the benefit of leave or given some employment code and their names might have found place in the seniority list amongst others but thereby they can not be said to have been given a permanent ticket.
the question therefore which arises for consideration is as to whether they could lay a valid claim for regularization of their services.
we have referred to the said fact only for the purpose of showing that it would not be correct to contend that the appellants had no access to the said documents.
we can not but bear in mind the fact that the initial burden of establishing the factum of their continuous work for 240 days in a year rests with the applicants respondents.
it was urged that there does not exist any controversy that oda was to continue before 30 6 1997 and as such the appellants could not have been absorbed by the respondent authority.
the matter relating to recruitment is governed by the 1973 act and the 1987 rules.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
apex bank ltd vs y s shetty and others 2000 10 scc 179 1999 indlaw sc 2211 and m d u p land development corporation and another vs amar singh and others 2003 5 scc 388 2003 indlaw sc 331.
it is furthermore evident that the persons appointed as daily wagers held no posts.
the terms of conditions of service contained in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules are not in derogation of the provisions contained in schedule appended to the 1961 act.
dr rajiv dhawan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 and mr m n rao learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in civil appeal no 335 of 2002 took us through materials on records and contended that the appellants herein became permanent employees of the respondents having regard to the provisions contained in section 2 of the 1961 act and order 2i and 2vi of the standard standing orders as set out in the annexure appended to the 1963 rules defining permanent employees and the temporary employees.
the plea of dr dhawan to the effect that the appellants in civil appeal.
it is furthermore not in dispute that adhiniyam came into force in 1973.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
considering these facts in our view drawing of an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the years 1991 92 is wholly erroneous on the part of the industrial court and the high court.
these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
the said decisions thus are of no assistance in this case.
we have noticed hereinbefore that in the case of om prakash mondloi the ceo made an endorsement to the effect that he may be tried in daily wages and should be entrusted with the work of progress collection of oda work.
it is also not the case of the appellants that their names had appeared in the service book maintained for the said purpose.
with a view to become eligible to be considered as a permanent employee or a temporary employee one must be appointed in terms thereof.
it was in fact held that as the petitioners therein were not regularized in accordance with the prescribed rules and regulations for regular appointments their services had to be terminated and as such there had been neither any arbitrary nor illegal action on the part of the respondents nor any violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed under articles 14 and 16.
however having regard to the facts and circumstances of the said case some directions were issued presumably in terms of article 142 of the constitution.
it is not the case of the appellants that they had been working as technical supervisors and clerks in respect of which service book may be maintained instead of issuance of a ticket.
this case involves 31 employees.
