only because there had been large intermingling and flow of funds from harshad mehta and inter se within the group the same by itself may not justify the conclusion that all of their assets were required to be sold irrespective of their individual involvement.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
by reason of the impugned order dated 17 october 2003 the learned special judge allowed misc.
the learned special judge has accepted the figures stated by the custodian at face value without probing the basis on which the statement was prepared even though the appellants in their sur rejoinder asserted that the figures in the statement were contrary to both the books of accounts drawn by them as also the auditor 's report.
several subsequent events have also been brought to our notice.
a special statute providing for special or no period of limitation must receive a liberal and broader construction and not a rigid or a narrow one.
a question may further arise as to whether the learned judge was correct in considering the individual liabilities of the notified parties as the liabilities of the group.
before adverting to the questions raised herein we may notice that both the parties have raised several contentions before us which have not precisely been raised before the learned special judge.
in the light of the directions issued herein it would be for the purchasers of the said flats to wait till a final decision is made or take back the amount deposited by them subject to any other or further order s that may be passed by the learned special judge.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
the said contention must be properly adjudged.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
no credit for rs 1227 crores released to revenue on interest are given by the custodian.
section 5 provides for establishment of the special court.
section 7 confers exclusive jurisdiction upon the special court.
any prosecution in respect of any offence referred to in sub s 2 of section 3 pending in any court is required to be transferred to the special court.
section 9 provides for the procedure and powers of the special court.
it is true that horrendous figures as regard the liabilities of harshad mehta have been projected before us but the same had been shown to be of the entire group.
iiithe order of assessment under the income tax act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and thus mere filing of appeals were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
further contention of the custodian is that even dr hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta have admitted that they had no knowledge about the transactions.
even in this behalf it was necessary for the special judge to assign sufficient and cogent reasons.
it has further been held that the property be shares dividends and bonus and rights shares would also be attached property.
we therefore do not interfere with that part of the order whereby and wherewith the auction sale as regard commercial properties had been directed by the learned judge special court.
the liabilities of the appellants in view of our findings aforementioned are required to be considered afresh by the learned judge special court.
the learned judge merely accepted the figures mentioned in the affidavit of the custodian and relied thereupon in the judgment without discussing the contentions and arguments raised on behalf of the appellants herein.
x we would however request the learned special judge special court to complete the hearings of the matter keeping in view of the fact that auction sale in respect of the residential premises is being consideration as expeditiously as possible and not later than twelve weeks from the date of the receipt of the copy of this order.
the learned judge special court shall take up the matter relating to confirmation of the auction sale in respect of the commercial properties immediately and pass an appropriate order thereupon within four weeks from the date of receipt of copy of this order.
save and except for sufficient or cogent reasons the learned judge shall not grant any adjournment to either of the parties.
as regard the tax liabilities of the appellants herein we would request the learned judge special court to consider the matter afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
as the said question has not been gone into by the learned judge special court it is necessary that the same be considered and appropriately dealt with.
the intent and purport of parliament enacting the said act furthermore must be given its full effect.
section 3 of the act provides for appointment and functions of the custodian.
the right of a person notified to file an application or to raise a defence that he is not liable in terms of the provisions of the act or in any event the properties attached should not be sold in discharge of the liabilities can be taken at the initial stage by filing an application in terms of sub s 2 of section 4 of the act.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
iwhether the appellants being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could have been proceeded against in terms of the provisions of the act.
the act.
while a purposive interpretation is permissible where two interpretations are possible the purposive interpretation must be such as preserves the constitutionality of the provision.
in that view of the matter evidently creation of any third party interest is no longer in dispute nor the same is subject to any order of this court.
the appellants herein are notified persons in terms of the provisions of the act.
the act would also have made provision for a subsistence allowance or the like for the notified person.
if those individuals who had no connection with harshad mehta could not have been proceeded against for meeting the liabilities of harshad mehta jointly or severally a clear finding was required to be arrived at.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
in fact according to the appellants there are gross errors in the material relied upon by the custodian.
the question as to whether the appellants could have been considered to be part of harshad mehta group by the learned special court need not be determined by us as at present advised in view of the fact that appropriate applications in this behalf are pending consideration before the learned special court.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
in any view of the matter the learned judge special court having not dealt with the question as regard the mode and manner of disbursements of the amount so far as the tax liabilities of the appellants are concerned elaborately the same requires fresh determination in the light of the decision of this court in harshad shantilal mehta.
the learned judge special court in this behalf having regard to the fact that several orders of best judgment assessment have been passed by the assessing authority may take into consideration the ratio laid down in the decision of this court in harshad shantilal mehta.
so far as question No 4 is concerned this court despite upholding the contention of the custodian that no question of any reopening of tax assessments before the special court would arise and the liability of the notified person to pay the tax will have to be determined under the machinery provided by the relevant tax law observed but the special court can decide how much of that liability will be discharged out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
in fact one of the contentions raised on behalf of the appellants had been that if commercial properties are sold there would be no need to sale the residential properties.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
the misc.
the said order however was modified and clarified by an order dated 5th may 2004 that the same shall not apply to the sale of commercial properties in view of the order of the learned judge special court dated 17th october 2003 wherein it was pointed out that the notified parties did not dispute the commercial properties being put to sale by the custodian.
reliance in this behalf has been placed on b c dalal 2005 indlaw sc 1826 v custodian.
central calcutta 1972 3 scc 252 1971 indlaw sc 841.
ivthe appellants herein apart from the corporate entity which is a front company of late harshad mehta have received large loans advances and credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees they can not escape their liabilities under the act.
2 to deal with the situation and in particular to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved to punish the guilty and restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and credibility of the banks and financial institutions the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities ordinance 1992 was promulgated on the 6th june 1992.
the ordinance provides for the establishment of a special court with a sitting judge of a high court for speedy trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and disposal of properties attached.
by an order dated 30th january 2004 while admitting the appeals this court directed the learned counsel for the custodian brings on record the result of the bids and the order of the special court dated 17 december 2003 and 20 january 2004.
the learned counsel for the appellants proposes to offer his comments on the bids and the two orders of the special court.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
furthermore the orders of the appellate authority have been passed during pendency of this appeal.
petition No 64 of 1998 disposed of on 17th august 2000 wherein allegedly a dichotomy between sale and distribution was sought to be resolved in terms of the decision of this court in harshad shantilal mehta.
act 1992 for short the act in misc.
subsequent to the filing of the present appeal in a large number of cases the revenue demands have been set aside.
in fact the appellants have brought on records various orders passed by income tax appellate authorities to show that the demands of the revenue have been set aside.
but in this case the orders of assessment have been set aside.
v the appellants having preferred appeals against the income tax orders of assessment passed by the authority and the same having been set aside no liability to pay income tax by the appellants as of now being existing the residential properties could not have been sold.
it has as noticed hereinbefore further been contended that various best judgment assessment passed by the assessing authority against some of the appellants have been set aside in appeal and the matters are pending reassessment before the assessing authority.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
with the aforementioned observations and directions these appeals are allowed.
appeals allowed.
it is furthermore not in dispute that in a large number of cases the appellate authorities have set aside best judgment assessments.
