hereinafter called as the scheduled land situated in lingabahalli village madhugiri taluk in the state of karnataka filed form no 7 before the land tribunal praying for a declaration that they had acquired occupancy rights in respect of the scheduled land.
he has not produced any geni receipts or any lease agreement to show that the 5th respondent has leased out the land in dispute in his favour on crop share basis and that he paid the geni to the 5th respondent.
in our view also the high court was fully justified in drawing an adverse inference against the appellants for not producing any geni receipts or any lease agreement to show that the 5th respondent before the high court respondent no 3 herein had in fact leased out the scheduled land in favour of the appellants or their father since deceased on crop share basis and that the appellants had paid the geni to the 5th respondent.
accordingly they prayed for rejection of the application filed by the father of the appellants claiming occupancy rights under the act.
initially the land tribunal allowed the application of the father of the appellants and feeling aggrieved a writ petition was filed against the said order.
thus the r t c extracts produced by him do not support his contention that he was cultivating the land in dispute as a tenant.
the land tribunal after remand relying on the entries in the rtc record and some other materials on record granted occupancy rights in favour of the appellants.
from a plain reading of section 121a of the act under which revisional jurisdiction can be exercised it would be clear that the high court while exercising such power is entitled to re appreciate the evidence when it finds that the conclusion arrived at by the appellate authority runs contrary to the materials on record and when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the appellate authority or when it finds that the reasons given by the appellate authority are absolutely perverse and can not be supported by the evidence on record.
from a careful examination of the findings given by the high court as quoted hereinabove in upsetting the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below we are not in a position to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent orders of the tribunals below in the exercise of its revisional power under section 121a of the act.
in our view on a careful examination of the findings of the high court which were based on consideration of the material evidence on record it is difficult for us to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent findings of fact of the tribunals below in the exercise of its jurisdiction under section 121a of the act.
act1974 in shortthe act in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act even then this is not a fit case where this court in the exercise of its power u art 136 of the constitution would interfere with such an order of the high court.
therefore under section 121a of the act in the presence of any of the abovementioned circumstances the high court is empowered to look into the legality of the orders impugned in deciding the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants under the respondent nos 3 or 4.
keeping the aforesaid principles in mind as to when the high court would be justified in the exercise of its power under section 121a of the act to examine the legality of the orders of the tribunals below in an appropriate case let us now examine the findings of the high court while setting aside the concurrent findings of fact of the tribunals below.
in that case the findings recorded by the appellate authority as affirmed by the high court by placing reliance on the entries made in the record of rights to the effect that the appellants were not in possession of the land on the relevant date nor were they cultivating the same were not accepted by this court.
so far as krishtappa yellapa pujar ors vs ram samsthan beladhadi 1999 1 scc 74 is concerned we again fail to understand that how this could be of any help to the appellants.
we have already noted the findings made by the high court in the impugned judgment on the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants on the evidence and materials on record.
so the only question which arises for consideration is whether the said cultivation of the land in dispute by the father of the respondents 3 and 4 during the years 1968 to 1974 can be presumed to be that of a tenant under the provisions of s 4 of the karnataka land reforms act.
by lrs 2000 1 scc 518 1999 indlaw sc 941 and krishtappa yellappa pujar ors vs ram samsthan beladhadi 1999 1 scc 74 1998 indlaw sc 1197.
in our view so far as the decision in the case of mohan balaku patil ors vs by lrs 2000 1 scc 518 1999 indlaw sc 941 is concerned it is difficult to conceive how this decision could be of any help to the appellants.
to prove this fact he relied upon the entries in the r t c extract for the years 1968 to 1974 wherein his name is shown as the person in cultivation of the land in dispute.
in the present case also the respondents 3 and 4 failed to prove that their father was cultivating the land in dispute from the year 1968 as a tenant under the respondent no 5 and that after the death of their father they continued as tenants in respect of the land in dispute.
while considering such entries the high court had rightly held that from the entries in the rtc record for the years 1968 to 1974the name of the appellants was not shown as the person in cultivation of the land in dispute and also the nature of cultivation of the scheduled land was not shown as that of the tenants in the said rtc record.
it was alleged by the respondent no 4 that since the respondent no 3 was a film actor and had settled in madras now chennaiwith the consent of the respondent no 3the scheduled land was given to the father of the appellants and the father of the appellants was cultivating the same from the year 1968 but not as a tenant.
a revision petition thereafter was moved before the high court and the high court by the impugned judgment had set aside the concurrent findings of fact and rejected the application filed by the father since deceased of the appellants holding inter alia that the appellants or their father had failed to prove the tenancy in respect of the scheduled land.
the father of the respondents 3 and 4being the uncle of respondent no 5 mortgagee it is also quite possible that he might have been allowed to cultivate the land in dispute under the personal supervision of respondent no 5 by assisting him in cultivation of the said land.
in our view although the high court had set aside the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below under the karnataka land reforms.
in this case while rejecting the claim of the appellants the high court had considered that the appellants had failed to satisfy the court that any payment of rent was made either by the father of the appellants or by the appellants themselves.
accordingly this decision is of no help to the appellants.
