Appeal No 68 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated July 27 1959 of the Allahabad High Court in Income tax Reference No 307 of 1957.
SV Gupte Solicitor General R Ganapathy Iyer and RN Sachthey for the appellant.
AV Viswanatha Sastri and SP Varma for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
This appeal pursuant to a certificate granted by the Allahabad High Court under section 66A2 of the Income tax Act hereinafter referred to as the Act is directed against the judgment of the High Court in a reference under the Act answering the question referred to it in the negative.
The question referred by the Appellate Tribunal is Whether on a true interpretation of clause viii of subsection 3 of section 4 of the indian Income tax Act the sum of Rs 36396 received by the assessee as an allowance during the previous year of the assessment year 1949 50 is revenue income liable to tax under the Indian Income tax Act 1922 The relevant facts stated in the Statement of the case are as follows The assessee is a Hindu undivided family headed by one Sri Trivikram Narain Singh who is a descendant of one Sri Babu Ausan Singh who was the original founder and owner of what is known as Ausanganj State in the district of Benaras.
The district of Benaras was formerly a part of Oudh territory.
By a Treaty between the East India Company Nawab Asfuddaula in or about the year 1775 the province of Benaras was ceded to the British Government.
The British Government granted a sanad of Raj to Raja Chet Singh who in turn gave the Jagir of Parganas Seyedpore and Bhittery in perpetuity to Babu Ausan Singh.
It appears that in 1796 there were some disputes between Babu Ausan Singh and the Zamindars in the district and the matter was referred by the Collector of Benaras to the Board of Revenue in Calcutta.
The disputes between the Jagirdars and Zamindars ultimately ended in 1837 by a compromise between the British Government and the then Jagirdar Hat Narain Singh whereby the British Government 702 granted a pension of Rs 363228 to Babu Hat Narain Singh anal his heirs in perpetuity.
The letter by which the amount of pension was determined at Rs 363228 is dated 7th of July 1837 and was from H Elliot Esqr the Secretary Sadar Board of Revenue NWP Allahabad to J Thompson Esqr Offg.
Secretary to Lt Government NWP.
During the previous year of the assessment year 1949 50 the assessee received a sum of Rs 36396 on account of the aforesaid pension.
Raja Bahadur Karnakhaya Harain Singh1.
The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who held that the alleged cash grant of varying and unspecified amount received by the appellant in relation to land revenue of Seyedpur now Tehsil of District Ghazipur clearly fell within the definition of agricultural income under Section 21 of the Incometax Act The Income tax Officer appealed to the Income tax Appellate Tribunal.
The Tribunal held that the sum of Rs 36396 was chargeable to tax under the Act as the income was not agricultural income for although the pension was determined with respect to the quantum of the rent collection the rent collections or the land could not be said to be the immediate source of the pension.
Appeal allowed.
