Appeal No 381 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated October 7 1965 of the Punjab High Court Circuit Bench at Delhi in Civil Writ No 1626 C of 1965.
M C Setalvad R K Garg and section C Agarwala for the appellants.
C K Daphtary Attorney General B R L Iyengar R K P Shankardass and R H Dhebar for respondents Nos 1 and 3 to 7.
section Mohan Kumaramangalam C Ramakrishna and A V V Nair for respondent No 2.
The dissenting Opinion Of SARKAR CJ and MUDHOLKAR.
 J was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J HIDAYATULLAH.
BACHAWAT and SHELAT JJ.
delivered separate judgments allowing the Appeal.
Mudholkar J.
On May 19 1965 Mr D section Dang Secretary of the Company Law Board issued an order on behalf of the Company Law Board made under section 237 b of the appointing 4 persons as Inspectors for investigating the affairs of the Barium Chemicals Ltd appellant No I before us since its incorporation in the year 1961 and to report to the Company Law Board inter alia all the irregularities and contravention in respect of the provisions of the or of any other law for the time being in force and the person or persons responsible for such irregularities and contravention.
 The order was made by the Chairman of the Board Mr R C Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
On June 4 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19 1965.
The Company was registered in the year 1961 and had an authorised capital of Rs 1 crore divided into 100000 shares of Rs 100 each.
319 It would see that soon after the collaboration agreement was entered into Ms L A Mitchell Ltd was taken over by a financial group Ms Pearwn  Co Ltd to which a person named Lord Poole belonged.
According to the appellants before entering into a collaboration agreement with Ms L A Mitchell Ltd the appellant No 2 Balasubramanian was negotiating with a German firm named Kali Chemie A G of Hanover for obtaining their collaboration.
Appellant No 2 did not agree to this with the result that the company s negotiations with Kali Chemie broke down.
In exercise of.
i to iii.
The Board.
