Appeal No 787 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 5 1961 of the Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree No 1012 of 1955.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
Sukumar Ghose for respondent No 1.
The Judgment of WANCHOO C J and MITTER J was delivered by MITTER J BHAGAVA J delivered a separate Opinion.
Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
The question before us is whether the respondent No 1 was entitled.
to the benefit of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended finally by an Act of 1953.
The facts necessary for the disposal.
of this appeal are as follows.
On the 18th June 1948 the plaintiff the appellant before us instituted Suit No 292 of 1948 for ejectment of three Persons namely Abdul Rahim Abdul Hamid and Abdul Gaffur from the property in suit a parcel of land about 1 cottah 8 chittaks being part of premises No 6  1 Shibtola Lane Entally Calcutta.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
In the plaint itself the first two defendants were described as thika tenants.
No claim was made for rents or taxes although it was alleged that the same were in arrears.
The suit was contested only by the third defendant who filed a written statement in September 1948 contending that the suit was bad for non joinder of parties.
The suit was decreed by a Munsif of Sealdah court 24 Parganas on March 18 1949 after the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act of 1949 had come into force on February 28 1949.
The appeal filed therefrom by the third defendant was dismissed by the Subordinate Judge.
Fifth Additional 172 Court Alipore on November 23 1949.
The decree holder put the decree in execution and recovered possession of the land on December 18 1949.
The Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 was passed on October 21 1952 introducing various changes in the Act and substituting a new definition of a thika tenant.
On March 14 1953 the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Act 1953 was passed amending the definition of thika tenant still further and introducing important changes in the Act of 1949.
The effect of these provisions will be considered later on.
Before the Subordinate Judge a point was taken that after the coming into force of the Act of 1949 the Rent Controller alone had jurisdiction in respect of ejectment suits as the defendant appellant was a thika tenant.
The Subordinate Judge dismissed the plea on the ground that the defendant appellant had not erected the structures on the land and was not a successor in interest of the tenant but only a transferee.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
The learned Judge held that at the time when the appeal of the defendant was disposed of by the Subordinate Judge the rights of the parties were governed by the Thika Tenancy Act of 1949 and the definition of a thika tenant in that Act was not such as to afford any protection to the appellant.
In view of the amendment of the Act in 1953 however.
the learned Judge felt that the question whether the appellant was entitled to the benefit of that Act had to be re examined and consequently he remanded the matter to the lower appellate court with a direction that there should be a fresh decision of the case after considering the law applicable and taking further evidence if necessary.
On remand the Subordinate Judge Seventh Court Alipore rejected the plea of the landlord that the appellant Gaffur could not be regarded as a thika tenant inter alia on the ground that he had sold his interest by a registered sale deed dated April 12 1949 to one Subasini.
On a consideration of the provisions of the Act and the Ordinance the Subordinate Judge held that the appellant Gaffur was not liable to ejectment in the absence of any grounds therefor in the notice to quit in accordance with section 3 of the Act as he was a thika tenant within the meaning of the Act as it was finally amended.
He also observed that section 4 of the Act would be applicable.
The landlord went up in appeal once more to the High Court.
The first attempt to give relief to persons described as thika tenants was made by West Bengal Ordinance No XI of 1948 promulgated on October 26 1948.
 The section has two provisos one of which laid down that no thika tenant Shall be ejected from his holding on any of the grounds specified in cls iv and v of  3 except on payment to him or 0 deposit with the Controller for payment to him such compensations might be agreed upon or might be determined in  the manner prescribed bythe Controller.
5 enacted that 1 Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force a landlord wishing to eject a thika tenant on one or more of the grounds specified in section 3 shall apply in the prescribedmanner to the Controller for an order in that behalf andon receipt of such application the Controller shall after giving the thika tenant a notice to show cause within thirty days from the date of service of the notice why the application shall not be allowed and after making an inquiry in the prescribed manner either allow the application or reject it after recording the reasons for making such order  The section further provided that no  order allowing an application was to be made unlesscompensation payable to the tenant was either deposited with the Controller or paid to the tenant Chapter IV of the Act by several sections provided for appeals reviews etc.
Sub section.
