ases Nos 297 and 298 of 1951.
Appeals under article 132 1 of the Constitution from the judgment and order dated 28th August 1951 of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta Harries CJ Chakravarthi Das Banerjee and SR Das Gupta JJ in Civil Revision Cases Nos 942 and 1113 of 1951.
The facts of the case and the argument of Counsel appear fully in the judgment.
MC Setalvad Attorney General for India B Sen with him for the appellant in Case No 297.
Jitendra Nath Ghose R P Bagchi with him for the respondent in Case No 297.
AA Peerbhoy and JB Dadachanji for Habib Mohammad Intervener.
V Rajaram Iyer Advocate General of Hyderabad R Ganapathy Iyer with him for the State of Hyderabad.
AR Sornanatha Iyer Advocate General of Mysore K Ramaseshayya Choudhry with him for the State of Mysore.
B Sen for the appellant in Case No 298.
NC Chatterjee section K Kapur with him for the respond ent in Case No 298 1952.
January 11.
The following judgments were deliv ered.
289 PATANJALI SASTRI CJ.
This is an appeal by the State of West Bengal from a judgment of a Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta quashing the conviction of the respondent by the Special Court established under sec tion 3 of the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance 1949 Ordinance No 3 of 1949 which was replaced in March 1950 by the West Bengal Special Courts Act 1950 West Bengal Act X of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act.
The respondent and 49 other persons were charged with various offences alleged to have been committed by them in the course of their raid as an armed gang on a certain factory known as the Jessop Factory at Dum Dum and they were convicted and sentenced to varying terms of imprison ment by the Special Court to which the case was sent for trial by the Governor of West Bengal by a notification dated 26th January 1950 in exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 1 of the Act.
Thereupon the respondent applied to the High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ of certiorari quashing the conviction and sentence on the ground that the Special Court had no jurisdiction to try the case inasmuch as section 5 1 under which it was sent to that Court for trial was uncon stitutional and void under article 13 2as it denied to the respondent the equal protection of the laws enjoined by article 14.
The High Court by a Full Bench consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges quashed the conviction and directed the trial of the respondent and the other accused persons according to law.
Hence the appeal.
The Act is intituled An Act to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences  and the preamble declares that it is expedient to provide for the speedier trial of cer tain offences .
Section 3 empowers the State Government by notification in the official gazette to constitute Special Courts and section 4 provides for the appointment of spe cial judges to preside over such courts.
Section 5 whose constitutionality is impugned runs thus 290 51 A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of cases as the classes of offences or cases State Government may by general or special order in writing direct.
2 Nodirection shall be made under sub section 1 for the trial of an offence for which an accused person was being tried at the commencement of this Act before any court but save as aforesaid such direction may be made in re spect of an offence whether such  offence was committed before or after the commencement of this Act.
 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
The main features of such procedure which mark a departure from the established procedure for criminal trials under the Code of Criminal Procedure are the elimination of the committal procedure in sessions cases and the substitu tion of the procedure laid down in the Code for trial of warrant cases by the Magistrate trial without jury or assessors restriction of the court s power in granting adjournments special powers to deal with refractory accused and dispensation of de novo trial on transfer of a case from one special court to another.
While some of these departures from the normal procedure might in practice operate in some respects to the disadvantage of persons tried before the Special Court it cannot be said that they derogate from the essential requirements of a fair and impartial trial so as to give rise from their very nature to an inference of a discriminatory design.
In other words it cannot be said that the special procedure provided in the Act is on its face calculated to prejudice the fair trial of persons subjected to it.
The departure in each case is plainly calculated to shorten the trial and thus to attain the declared objective of the statute.
Harries CJ who delivered the leading judgment which Das and Banerjee JJ.
The learned Chief Justice rejected the argument that the word cases in the sub section should in view of the title and preamble of the Act.
be construed as meaning cases requiring speedier trial He found it impossible to cut down the plain meaning of the word cases  as used in the section.
He realised that the powers under the sub section could be so exercised as not to involve discrimination but they also could in my view be exercised in a manner involving dis crimination.
When an Act gives power which may and can offend against a provision or provisions of the Constitution such an Act is ultra vires though it could be administered so as not to offend against the Constitution and he relied in support of this view on certain observations in the judgment of the majority in the Crossroads case1.
Chakravartti and Das JJ.
It 1  603.
The principle of construction applicable here is perhaps nowhere better stated than by Lord Tenterden CJ in Halton vs Cove1 It is very true as was argued for the plaintiff that the enacting words of an Act of Parliament are not always to be limited by the words of the preamble but must in many cases go beyond it.
Co 2.
538 558.
Ward vs Flood 1.
Rep405.
Dealing with these facts the court observed Though the law itself be fair on its face and impartial in appearance yet if it is applied and administered by public authority with an evil eye and an unequal hand so as to practically make unjust and illegal discrimination between persons in similar circum stances material to their rights the denial of equal justice is still within the prohibition of the Constitution Italics mine.
Appeals dismissed.
