iminal Appeal No112 of 1965.
Appeal by special leave from the jurisdiction and order dated April 29 1965 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Misc Contempt Case No 43 of 1965.
A section R Chari M K Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar and Shyamala Pappu for the appellants.
O P Rana for respondent No 1.
J P Goyal V C Prasar and section P Singh for respondent No 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the Allahabad High Court adjudging the five appellants guilty of contempt of court and sentencing each of them to pay a fine of Rs 1000 and further ordering that in case of default they shall undergo simple imprisonment for two weeks.
The High Court held that the five appellants had disobeyed an order of stay passed by it staying proceedings pending before the Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas District Deoria.
The relevant facts are these.
On September 2 1963 Yashoda son of Raj Kumar filed a complaint before the Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas against Jagdeo Mahabir and Laxmi alleging that he had been abused and be laboured and his property worth Rs 40 damaged.
On September 10 1963 the Nyaya Panchayat assembled and evidence was led before it.
The case was adjourned to December 25 1963.
On October 11 1963 Mahabir accused made an application under section 85 of the UP Panchayat Raj Act 1947 to SDM Deoria to transfer the proceedings on the ground that the complainant Yashoda was father of Bunna Prasad Sarpanch of Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas.
On November 28 1963 the SDM rejected this application.
On December 13 1963 a notice was issued to the five members of the Panchayat to assemble on December 25 1963 and hear the case.
On December 20 1963 Mahabir moved an application under article 227 of the Constitution challenging the order of the SDM dated November 28 1963 and on the same day the High Court admitted the application and stayed further proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
An urgent copy of the order was applied for and obtained on that very day and the counsel sent a telegram in the following words Allahabad He 20 Baldeopd cashier Trust Sdr GR Mahabir application admitted stay granted Banwarilal.
 117 It is alleged on the side of the applicant Mahabir that immediately after the receipt of the telegram an application accompanied by an affidavit and the telegram of his counsel in the High Court was presented before the Nyaya Panchayat with the prayer to stay further proceedings but the Sarpanch refused to take it.
This fact was denied and the High Court seems not to have relied on this fact in its judgment.
But notwithstanding my informing the Panchayat Adalat of that I am not getting any hearing there and when an application is made there it is not entertained He prayed that the Panchayat Adalat be directed to postpone proceedings pending the receipt of the stay order.
He produced the telegram received from the Advocate before the SDM.
On the same day a final order was made holding the accused guilty and imposing a fine of Rs 3 each on accused Nos 1 and 3 and Rs 9 on accused No 2.
The main allegation apart from reciting the facts which we have already detailed above was that in spite of the knowledge of the interim stay dated 20 12 63 passed by the Hon ble High Court the Sarpanch the Opposite Party No 1 and the members of the Bench Opposite Parties Nos 2 to 5 disobeyed the order of the Hon ble High Court and disposed of the case on 25 12 63 and thus they committed contempt of the Hon ble High Court.
Mahabir told us that he is not prepared to go to Tehsil but is presenting before the Panchayat whatever he has got in his possession Phagu Prasad further stated that no other affidavit had ever been filed before us but we knew that in the law courts the 119 affidavitswhich are filed are verified by some authorityHe further added that the reason why we did not believe theaffidavit of Mahabir was that it did not contain any date of theHigh Court s stay order Bunna Prasad in his statement stated that he had told Mahabir to bring the affidavit on a good quality paper of full size and Mahabir thereupon told him that he would present whatever he had.
