Appeal No 390 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated January 11 13 1964 of the Industrial Tribunal Orissa Cuttack in Industrial Dispute Case No 8 of 1962.
DL Sengupta Janardan Sharma Anil Das Chowdhury and SK Nandy for the appellants.
HR Gokhale K Gobind Das NC Shah Krishna Sen and R Gopalakrishnan for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Bhargava J.
The workmen of Orient Paper Mills Ltd Brajrajnagar have come up in this appeal by special leave against an award of the Industrial Tribunal Orissa.
An industrial dispute between these workmen and the management of Orient Paper Mills Ltd hereinafter referred to as the Company was referred by the State Government under section 101 d of the Industrial Disputes Act hereinafter referred to as the Act for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
The Tribunal gave its award on all the thirty items.
The special leave in this Court was sought and granted in respect of two matters covering some of these items.
The first matter related to fixation of wages including minimum wages and this was covered by items Nos 1 3 4 22 and 26 in the Schedule attached to the Order of Reference.
The second matter in the appeal related to bonus covered by item No 2 of that Schedule.
In the course of the hearing of the appeal learned counsel appearing on behalf of the workmen further gave up some of the points which were the subject matter of the items mentioned above so that in this judgment we need deal with only those points which were argued by him in support of the appeal.
Instead what the Tribunal did was to work out the minimum wages which should be paid on an entirely different basis.
They are Titaghur Paper Mill No 3 situated at Chaudwar and the JK Paper Mills at Rayagada.
The Tribunal mentioned that according to the Coal Award the minimum wage in the Collieries at the then existing Price Index was Rs 93 7 0 in the Cement Factory Rs 9688 in the Steel Plant Rs 9500 and in the Aluminium Company Rs 9784 nP The Tribunal then also took into account the minimum wages being paid by other Paper Mills situated outside the region and thereafter recorded its own decision in the following words  The conclusion that flows from these figures is that the lowest paid worker in the Paper Mill at Brajrajnagar gets more than what is paid as minimum wage in the other two Paper Mills of Orissa but it is less than what is paid to the lowest paid worker in some of the Paper Mills outside the State.
payable as production bonus.
in the same region.
