Petition under article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of fundamental rights.
section V Gupte P A Choudhury and K Rajendra Chaudhuri for the petitioners.
M C Setalvad P Ramachandra Rao Advocate General Andhra Pradesh A Raghubir and A V Rangam for respondent No 1.
M C Setalvad and R N Sachthey for respondent No 2.
R V Pillai H section Gururai Rao and Subodh Markandeya for respondents Nos 3 to 45.
Sardar Ali Khan P N Duda and J B Dadachanji for res pondent No 46.
P A Choudhury K Rajendra Chaudhuri and C section Sreenivasa Rao for the interveners.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah CJ.
The petitioners are persons employed in the ministerial services of the Andhra Pradesh Government.
All of them were working in various offices located in the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad.
On January 19 1969 leaders of all political parties in the Legislature of the Andhra Pradesh State appeared to have met and reached the decision that to Implement what are called Telengana Safeguards  the following measures should be taken  All non domicile persons who have been appointed either directly by promotion or by transfer to posts reserved under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Rules 1959 for domiciles of Telengana region will be immediately relieved from service.
The posts so rendered vacant will be filled by qualified candidates possessing domicile qualifications and in cases where such candidates are not available the posts shall be left unfilled till qualified domicile candidates become available Action on the above lines will be taken immediately.
All non domicile employees so relieved shall be provided employment in the Andhra region without break in service and by creating supernumerary posts if necessary.
Names of such incumbents were to be shown in a proforma and they were to be employed in the Andhra region without break in service by creating supernumerary posts if necessary.
These supernumerary posts were to be treated as temporary addition to the strength of the office concerned and were to be adjusted against future vacancies in corresponding posts as they arose.
The action was based upon section 3 of the Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Act 1957 44 of 1957 which was an Act of Parliament made in pursuance of cl.
3 of article 16 of the Constitution making special provision for requirement as to residence and brought into force on March 21 1959.
It provided 3.
Power to make rules in respect of certain classes of public employment in certain areas 1The Central Government may by notification in the Official Gazette make rules prescribing in regard to appointments to aany subordinate service or post under the State Government of Andhra Pradesh or any requirement as to residence within the Telengana area or the said Union territory as the case may be prior to such appointment.
Under section 5 the Rules had a life of 5 years but by subsequent legislation the period was extended to 10 years.
It is said that the period 118 is to be extended by another 5 years.
The Rules were made on March 21 1959.
They are called the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Rules 1959.
Rule 3 provides  3.
 The petitioners were appointed between December 27 1956 and July 4 1968.
They challenge the Act the Rules and the proposed action as ultra vires the Constitution.
Their case is that article 163 under which the Act and the Rules purport to be made has been misunderstood as conferring a power to make a law prescribing requirement as to residence in a part of a State.
For this reason section 3 of the Act is challenged as ultra vires the Constitution.
119 Article 16 on which the Act the Rules and the present action are all based reads  16.
Equality of opportunity in matters of public employment.
4    5   .
The third pause then makes an exception.
