l Misc.
Petitions Nos.
401and 4012 of 1968.
Applications by respondent No 1 for revocation of the certificate granted by the Madras High Court on 15th October 1968 under article 1331a  b of the Constitution of India.
AND Civil Appeals Nos 2183 and 2184 of 1968.
Appeals from the judgment and order elated October 9 1968 of the Madras High Court in OSA No 25 and 27 of 1968.
MC Setalvad.
VP Raman DN Mishra and JB Dadachanji for the appellant.
section Mohan Kumaramangalam.
MK Ramamurthi Shyamala Pappu and Vineet Kumar for respondent No 1.
Rameshwar Nath and Mahinder Narain for respondent No 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
Ms Tarapore  Company hereinafter called the plaintiffs applied in Suit No 118 of 1967 for an interim injunction restraining the Bank of India Ltd the first defendant in the suit from taking any steps in pursuance of a letter of credit opened in favour of Ms VO Tractors Export Moscow the second defendant.
Ramamurthi J by order dated April 12 1968 granted an interim injunction restraining encashment of the letters of credit pending disposal of the suit.
In appeals under the Letters Patent preferred by the second defendant.
the High Court of Madras set aside that order.
Against the orders passed in the two appeals the plaintiffs applied for certificate under Arts1331a and 1331b of the Constitution.
By our order dated October 28 1968 we ordered that the certificate granted by the High Court do stand revoked.
Article 133 1 provides insofar as it is material 1 An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from any judgment decree or final order in a civil proceeding of a High Court in the territory of India if the High Court certifies a that the amount or value of the subject matter of the dispute in the court of first instance and still in dispute on appeal was and is not less than twenty thou sand rupees or such other sum as may be specified in that behalf by Parliament by law or 701 b that the judgment decree or final order involves directly or indirectly some claim or question respecting property of the like amount or value or c   where the judgment decree or final order appealed from affirms the decision of the Court immediately below in any case other than a case referred to in sub clause c if the High Court further certifies that the appeal involves some substantial question of law.
In Abdul Rahman s case1 a suit was instituted by DK Cassim and Sons claiming damages against the appellant Abdul Rahman.
The Court in that case expressly approved of the earlier view at p 736 where after referring to Kuppusami Rao s case1 observed Syedna Taher Saifuddin Saheb s case observed   these were cases where the impugned orders were passed in appeals or revisions and since an appeal or a revision in continuation of the original suit or proceeding the test applied was whether the order disposed of the original suit or proceeding.
