Appeal No 1311 of 1967.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 17 1967 of the Patna High Court in CWJC No 952 of 1966.
M C Chagla N D Karkhanis section P Chowdhury Bhuvanesh Kumari for the appellant.
section C Manchanda R N Sachthey and B D Sharma for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde J.
This is an assessee s appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Patna dismissing in limini its writ petition under Arts 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.
The assessee is having construction contracts under the Railways as well as the Government.
It is a partnership firm.
For the assessment year 1960 61 relevant to the accounting year 1959 60 after the assessee submitted its income tax return it was asked by the Income tax Officer during the income tax assessment proceedings to produce before him its books of account and the other relevant papers.
The assessee also produced before him a statement showing various creditors from whom it had borrowed on Hundis during the accounting year in question.
In that statement it gave the lull names and address of the alleged creditors.
After enquiry the assessee s total income was assessed at Rs 69886 .
On June 3 1966 the 1st respondent Income tax Officer Ward A  Muzaffarpur issued to the assessee a notice under section 148 of the Indian Income tax Act 1961.
Income Tax Officer Muzaffarpur Dated the 3 6 1966.
TO Ms Chugamal Rajpal Muzaffarpur.
Section 151 2 of the Act reads No notice shall be issued under Section 148 after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant assessment year unless the Commissioner is satisfied on the reasons recorded by the Income tax Officer that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice Section 148 prescribes  1 Before making the assessment re assessment or re computation under Section 147 the Income tax Officer shall serve on the assesee a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a notice under sub section 2 of Section 139 and 445 the provisions of this Act shall so far as may be apply accordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under that sub section.
Section 1392 says  In the case of any person who in the incometax Officer s opinion assessable under this Act whether on his own total income or on the total income of any other person during the previous year the Income tax Officer may before the end of the relevant assessment year serve a notice upon him requiring him to furnish within thirty days from the date of service of the notice a return of his income or the income of such other person during the previous year in the prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner and setting forth such other particulars as may be prescribed proviso is not necessary for our present purpose When this appeal came up for hearing on the last occasion as we found the affidavit filed by the Income tax Officer to be vague and indefinite we directed the learned Counsel for the Department to produce before us the records of the Incometax Officer to show that the Income tax Officer had complied with the requirements of section 148 and section 1512 of the Act.
446 4.
