Appeal No 1653 of 1967.
Appeal from the judgment and order dated February 23 1967 Of the Delhi High Court in CW No 403 D of 1959.
B Sen P L Juneja R N Sachthey and section P Nayer for the appellant.
Sardar Bahadur and Yougindra Khushalani for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri CJ.
The judgment reproduced below was drafted by the late Mr Justice Roy and we all had subscribed to it.
We beard the matter formally again on November 19 1971.
We adopt the judgment as our own.
448 This is an appeal by the Union of India by way of special leave.
On April 9 1959 the Central Government directed removal from service of Capt section K Rao under r 14 of the Army Rules 1954.
The facts leading to his removal are as follows  Rao was a commissioned officer in the Indian Army and was attached to the Army Ordnance Corps Training Centre Secundrabad.
It was alleged that on April 4 1958 he committed acts of gross misconduct.
The allegations were as follows  Knowing Kumari Prakash as the daughter of a brother Officer Rao assisted her in going away from her parents protection and planning to run away with a sepoy  Rao by threatening to cause harm to Kumari Prakash s parents intimidated her t o visit his house where he took her in his scooter to the unit lines of 51 1 1 Gurkha Rifles where he arranged her meeting with a sepoy of the unit He ie Rao acquiesced in the girl being met by the sepoy later at a tea shop nearby where she received a present of a sari and blouse from the sepoy in his presence Rao thus actively abetted in the attempt of brother officer s daughter elope with a sepoy Rao then took Kumari Prakash to a hotel Saidya Lodge  in Hyderabad and got a room to themselves by impersonating and giving a false identity as Mr  Mrs Prakash.
An inquiry into the matter was made by Court of Inquiry.
The Chief of the Army Staff after going through the proceedings of the Court of Inquiry considered that the conduct of Capt.
Rao was most unbecoming of an officer.
As he was of opinion that trial of the officer by a General Court Martial was inexpedient he ordered administrative action to be taken under r 14 of the Army Rules 1954.
By memorandum dated September 4 1958 Rao was called upon to submit his explanation by way of defence regarding the allegations against him.
3 The Central Government after due consideration of the reports the officer s defence if any and the recommendation of the C in C may dismiss or remove the officer with or without pension or call upon him to retire or resign and on his refusing to do so the officer may be retired from or gazetted out of the service on pension or gratuity if any admissible to him Under the aforesaid r 14 action can be taken for misconduct against an officer whose further retention in service is not considered desirable.
Sub section 2a provides  Without prejudice to the generality of the power conferred by sub section 1 the rules made thereunder may provide for a the removal retirement release or discharge from the service of persons subject to this Act Sections 18  19 which appear in Ch.
