iminal Appeal No 48 of 1954.
1303 Appeal by Special Leave granted by the Supreme Court by its Order dated the 31st July 1953 from the Judgment and Order dated the 15th May 1953 of the High Court of Judicature for the State of Pepsu at Th Patiala in Criminal Appeal No 140 of 1952 arising out of the Judgment and Order dated the 31st March 1952 of the Court of Magistrate 1st Class Patiala in Challan Case No 160102 of 1951.
Jai Gopal Sethi Naunit Lal with him for the appellant.
N section Bindra Porus A Mehta and P G Gokhale with him for the respondent.
February 28.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMA AYYAR J.
The appellant was a Sub Divisional Officer in the Public Works Department Pepsu and was at the material dates in charge of certain works at a place called Karhali.
It was part of his duties to disburse the wages to the workmen employed in the works and the procedure usually followed was that be drew the amount required from the treasury and paid the same to the emplo yees against their signatures or thumb impressions in the monthly acquittance roll.
In the roll for April 1951 one Parma was mentioned as a khalasi menial servant and a sum of Rs 51 shown as paid to him for his wages the payment being vouched by thumbimpression.
The case of the prosecution was that there was in fact no person of the name of Parma that the thumb impression found in the acquittance roll was that of the appellant himself that he had included a fictitious name in the acquittance roll with intent to himself draw the amount and that by this expedient he had received Rs 51 and misappropriated the same.
The First Class Magistrate of Patiala before whom the appellant was put up for trial framed charges against him under section 465 of the Indian Penal Code for forging the thumb impression of Parma and under section 409 of the Indian Penal Code for criminal misappropriation of Rs 51 and after a full trial 167 1304 acquitted him.
He held on the evidence that there was a khalasi Parma by name in the service of the accused at Kehrauli and that though the thumbimpression in the acquittance roll was that of the appellant the prosecution had not established that the amount drawn by him did not reach the hands of Parma.
Against this judgment there was an appeal by the State to the High Court of Pepsu which held that proof that the thumb impression in the acquittance roll was that of the appellant was sufficient when taken along with other circumstances to establish his guilt and accordingly convicted him both under section 465 and section 409 of the Indian Penal Code.
This appeal by special leave is directed against this judgment.
The question of sanction under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure may be taken up first for consideration as it goes to the root of the matter.
In view of this no question was raised before the trial Magistrate or the High Court that the prosecution was bad for want of sanction.
Now an offence seldom consists of a single act.
3 1948 LR 75 IA 41.
