Appeal No 1604 of 1967.
From the judgment and order dated the 8th February 1967 of Le Delhi High Court in Civil Writ No 531 D of 1964.
PP Rao and R N Sachthey for the appellants.
GP Pai P C Bhartari and O C Mathur for respondents nos.
1  2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SARKARIA J.
Whether the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry New Delhi Respondent 1 is a commercial establishment within the meaning of s25 of the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 1954 for short the Act is the sale question that falls for determination in this appeal by certificate directed against the judgment dated February 8 1967 of the High Court of Delhi.
The facts bearing on this question may now be stated Respondent 1 hereinafter referred to as the Federation is a Company registered under section 26 of the Indian Companies Act 1913.
The primary objects of the Federation as given in the Memorandum of Association are a To promote Indian business in matters of inland and foreign trade transport industry and manufactures finance and all other economic subjects and to encourage Indian banking shipping and insurance.
b To encourage friendly feeling end unanimity among business community and association on all subjects connected with the common good of Indian business.
c To secure organised action on all subjects mentioned above.
d To collect and disseminate statistical and other information and to make effort for the spread of commercial and economic knowledge.
e To take all steps by lawful means which may be necessary for promoting supporting or opposing legislation or other action affecting the aforesaid economic interests and in general to take the initiative to assist and promote trade commerce and industry.
fTo provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising in the course of trade industry or transport or other business matters and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
g To conduct undertake the conduct of and participate in national and international exhibitions.
h To set up museums or show rooms to exhibit the products of India and other countries and to participate in such activities.
The Articles of Association inter alia provide that a Chamber or an Association can become an ordinary member of the Federation on payment of annual subscription of Rs 1000 or such higher amount as may from time to time be fixed by the Federation in addition to the admission fee of Rs 5001 .
1st Class Parliament Street New Delhi.
