ivil Appeal Nos.
630 631 of 1971.
Appeals by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated the 19 1 1970 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Tax Revision Cases Nos 46 and 47 of 1969.
V section Desai Mrs Vimla Markandeyulu and G N Rao for the Appellant.
P Ram Reddy and P P Rao for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BEG J.
The short question before us in these appeals by special leave is whether sales of Arc carbons known as Cinema Arc Carbons manufactured by the appellant company were rightly subjected to sales tax for two assessment years 1965 66 and 1966 77 on the ground that they fall under entry No 4 of the 1st Schedule of the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act 1957 hereinafter referred to as the Act .
This entry reads as follows Cinematographic equipment including cameras projectors and sound recording and reproducing equipment 562 lenses films and parts and accesories required for use their with As indicated above the very name of the Arc Carbons as commercial commodities seems to attach the word Cinema to them because of the use to which they are generally put.
The High Court referred to the fact that the appellants had not produced their account books to show that they had been purchased by persons other than those who ran cinemas or for any other use.
Of course it is very difficult to identify a taxable commodity merely by the use to which it may be put.
Nevertheless it appears that the entry under consideration links the taxable object with its general or ordinary use.
The taxing authorities were therefore compelled to consider the use which is generally made of the arc carbons.
They had concluded that the common or ordinary use of the arc carbons was that they exuded their power foul light cast through the projectors on cinema screens.
It was pointed out that the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal the final departmental authority under the Act had allowed an application for adducing expert evidence to determine the question whether arc carbons manufactured by the appellant company could be covered by the entry under consideration.
It however appears that before further evidence could be taken at the appellate stage on the subject a decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the State of Andhra Pradesh vs Srimathi Nidmarthi Saraswathi Devi1 was brought to the notice of the Tribunal.
There the High Court had held that such arc carbons are covered by the 4th entry in the 1st Schedule of the Act.
Hence the Tribunal dismissed the appeal without taking further evidence.
In the High Court two decisions cited on behalf of the appellants were Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes Madhurai Division Madhurai vs Ravi Auto Stores2 and State of Madras vs Indian oxygen Ltd 3.
The High Court pointed out that in both these cases what was decided was whether welding electrodes considered by themselves were electrical goods falling within entry 41 of Schedule 1 of the Madras General Sales Tax Act.
It was held in these cases that they were only copper rods which were melted by electrical power in the process of welding.
The additional cases cited before us were Pashabhai Patel  CoP Ltd vs Collector of Sales Tax Maharashtra State4 where it was held a tractor 1 TRC No 26 of 2962 decided on 9th August 1963 2 1968 22 STC 172 Madras 3 1968 22 STC 476 Madras 4 1964 15 STC32.
563 is not agricultural machinery within the meaning of entry 9 in Schedule of the Bombay Sales Tax Act 1953 Agrawal Brothers vs Commissioner of Sales Tax Madhya Pradesh1 where it was also held that a tractor which is nothing but a self propelled vehicle capable of pulling a load or traction does not acquire the character of agricultural machinery or implement merely because when used on agricultural land it is used also to draw certain agricultural implements like a plough The State of Mysore vs Mores India Ltd2 where it was held that a typewriter ribbon is not an essential part of a type writer so as to attract the tax under entry 18 of the second schedule to the Mysore Sales Tax Act 1957 Commissioner Sales Tax U P v Free India Cycle Industries3 where it was held that rexine saddle covers used also for bicycle seats are not covered by entry No 34 introduced by Section 3A of the UP Sales Tax Act 1948 as modified subsequently which read bicycles tricycles cycle rickshaws and perambulators and parts and accessaries thereof other than tyres and tubes The Madhya Pradesh State Co operative Marketing Society Jabalpur vs The Commissioner of Sales Tax MP Indore4 where it was held that oil engines and pumps which are not known in the commercial world as agricultural machinery could not be covered by an entry meant for goods sold for agricultural purposes simply because some of them are also sold to agriculturists for agricultural purposes.
For instance in entry No 5 the expression occurs at the end as follows Photographic and other cameras and enlargers films and plates paper and cloth and other parts and accessories required for use therewith.
The first entry in the schedule relates to motor vehicles and includes component parts of motor vehicles and articles including batteries adapted for use as parts and accessories of motor vehicles but excludes certain other articles by putting in the words not being such articles as are ordinarily also used for other purposes than as 1 1965 16 STC 860.
2 1970 26 STC 87.
564 part and accessories of motor vehicles.
Entry No 2 relating to refrigerators air conditioning plants covers also component parts thereof.
The words parts thereof are used in several entries such as entry No 6 for clocks time pieces and watches entry No 10 for dictaphones and other similar apparatus for recording sound and entry No 11 for sound transmitting equipment such as telephones and loud speakers.
our object in indicating the nature of entries amdist which entry No 4 occurs is to show that some precision has been attempted in making the entries.
VPS Appeals dismissed.
