Civil Appeal No 1231 of 1968.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 20th December 1962 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Civil Appeal No 151 of 1960.
B D Bal with A G Ratnaparkhi for the appellant.
V section Desai with M N Shroff for section P Nayar for respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by GOSWAMI J.
The question that arises in this appeal by special leave is whether Shri Vithal Sukhamai Sansthan at Amalner East Khandesh was a private Devasthan or a public religious trust.
There was a saint endowed with spiritual powers by the name of Sakharam Maharaj at Amalner.
The deity of his worship was Shri Vithal Rukhamai.
Although the origin of the Sansthan is dipped somewhat in antiquity and direct testimony was lacking it has never been disputed that Sakharam Maharaj constructed a temple in the year 1817 at Amalner and installed the aforesaid deity according to religious rites.
He also acquired certain properties and the said temple with the properties constituted Shri Vithal Rukhamai Sansthan of Amalner.
The sansthan had movable property of the value of Rs 19164 and immovable properties of the value of Rs 106000 and the average gross annual income as well as the average annual expenditure was Rs 11000 .
After the passing of the Bombay Public Trusts Act 1950 No 29 of 1950 briefly the Act an application under section 18 of that Act was filed by three persons Bhaskarrao Chimanrao Deshmukh Ramrao Sahebrao Deshmukh and Ramkrishna Tryambak Deshpande as constituted attorneys of Vasudeobuwa who was described in the application as the owner of the property.
The word Buwa  means saint.
The application was made on May 29 1952 to the Assistant Charity Commissioner Poona under protest and without prejudice 520 to the claim made therein that the Sansthan was not a public trust.
In view of the penal provision under section 66 of the Act in the case of non compliance with section 181 of the Act the said application was made ex abundanti cautela.
The Assistant Charity Commissioner after requisite notice made an enquiry into the matter in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
On behalf of the applicants representing the Sansthan evidence of the attorney Ramkrishna Deshpande was recorded and he was cross examined by the assessors as well as by the Assistant Charity Commissioner.
Some documents were also produced on behalf of the Sansthan.
Before we proceed further it may be appropriate to note the definitions of public trust  and temple  in section 213 and section 217 respectively of the Act which read as follows section 213 Public trust  means an express or constructive trust for either a public religious or charitable purpose or both and includes a temple a math a wakf church syna gogue agiary or other place of public religious worship a dharmada or any other religious or charitable endowment  section 217 Temple  means a place by whatever designation known and used as a place of public religious worship and dedicated to or for the benefit of or used as of right by the Hindu community or any section thereof as a place of public religious worship.
That ownership is of your own.
