 Criminal Appeal No 133 of 1975.
Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
A No 62873.
R Nagarathnam for the Appellant.
P Parmeswara Rao and G N Rao for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY J.
This appeal has been filed under Section 2a of the .
The appellant was acquitted by the learned Additional Sessions judge Chittoor of an offence under Section 302 Indian Penal Code.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
365 The deceased Subhadramma was the wife of the appellant.
They were married about one and a half years before the occurrence.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child according to customary practice were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased s mother.
After about one and a half months the accused asked his mother in law and brother in law to send his wife to his place.
They replied that she had only delivered a child recently and that she would be sent to her husband s house in the fifth month.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
This time he also brought with him PW 8 an elderly gentleman from his village.
His mother in law PW 2 told him that she would send the girl in the fifth month as she had not yet regained her health after delivery.
The accused and P W 8 went away.
That evening the accused again came to the house of his mother in law.
After dinner all of them went to sleep.
The house consisted of only one room.
The accused the deceased her brother PW 1 her mother PW 2 and her grand mother PW 3 were all sleeping in the room.
In the middle of the night PWs 1 2 and 3 were awakened by the cry Amma raised by Subhadramma.
On waking up they saw the accused sitting by the side of the deceased with a knife in his hand.
They found the deceased bleeding profusely from the left side of her chest.
PW 1 put his foot on the hand in which the accused was holding the knife.
The accused dropped the knife which was then picked up by the grand mother PW 3.
Attracted by the cries raised by the PWs 1 to 3 the neighbourers P Ws 4 5 6 and others came there.
They caught hold of the accused and tied him to a pole in front of the house by means of a rope.
Some of the villagers who had gathered there also gave a beating to the accused PW proceeded to the house of PW 9 the Village Munsif and reported the occurrence to him.
P W 1 affixed his thumb impression on the report exhibit P 1 prepared by P W 9.
P W 9 then proceeded to the house of PW 1 where the blood stained knife MO 1 was handed over to him.
Thereafter P W 9 prepared his own report exhibit P 4 and sent it alongwith exhibit P 1 and MO 1 to the Police Station at Renigunta.
They arrested him and found that he had injuries on his person.
nearly horizontal.
The deceased intervened and interposed herself between PW 1 and the accused.
The Learned Sessions Judge held that the prosecution had failed to establish any motive and that the evidence of the prosecution witnesses was discrepant conflicting and improbable  He thought that the prosecution had made an attempt to improve its case which was originally based on circumstantial evidence to made it appear as if PW 3 had also seen the stabbing.
We are unable to discover any good reason to reject the evidence of P Ws 1 to 3 or the evidence of P Ws 4 and 5.
