Civil Appeals No 2611 and 2611 A of 1981.
From the Judgment and order dated the 1st July 1981 of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir in LPA No 1 of 1981 and CMP No 454 of 1981.
A K Sen and G L Sanghi Vineet Kumar and Devinder Gupta for the Appellant.
578 DD Thakur SN Kacker and RP Bhatt for respondent in 261181.
J Sorabjee K K Venugopal and R P Bhatt for respondent in 2611 A81.
E C Agarwala section P Gupta R Satish VK Pandita and RP Sethi for respondent in 2611 2611 A L N Sinha Attn.
Altaf Ahmad and Irfan Ahmad for respondent No 2.
section Ghosh and A K Nag for the intervener.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BALAKRISHNA ERADI J.
When the hearing of these appeals was concluded on November 11 1982 after elaborate arguments had been addressed by learned counsel appearing on both sides we announced our decision allowing the appeal CANo 2611 of 1981 by passing the following order The appeal is allowed.
The Judgment and order of the Division Bench of the High Court presided over by learned Acting Chief Justice is set aside and one by learned Single Judge Dr A section Anand is restored and consequently the Writ Petition No 436 of 1980 filed by Respondents in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir stands dismissed.
No order as to costs of hearing in this Court.
The legal consequence of this order will take effect from November 16 1982.
ALL interim orders passed by this Court shall stand vacated from the midnight between 15th and 16th November 1982.
Reasons will follow.
 We now proceed to state in this judgment the reasons in support of our aforesaid conclusion 579 In July 1966 the appellant Ved Gupta decided to embark upon a venture to construct and operate an air conditioned Cinema in a plot of land which he proposed to take on lease in Gandhi Nagar Jammu in Collaboration with two osher persons namely Todar Mal and Kishan Kumar.
Accordingly on July 22 1966 Ved Gupta purporting to act on behalf of a partnership consisting of himself and the two persons aforementioned as a matter of fact no partnership had been constituted at all by that date applied to the District Magistrate Jammu under section 3 of the Jammu and Kashmir Cinematograph Act 1989 1933 AD herein after referred to as the Act for permission to construct a modern Cinema Hall at the proposed site a detailed description of which was furnished in the plan annexed to the application.
Shri Ved Gupta was informed by the District Magistrate Jammu by his Memo Annexure B that the Government had approved the construction of a Cinema Hall at the proposed site and had granted the requisite permission in his favour as per letter dated September 11 1967 issued by the Secretary to Government General Department.
From Annexure B it would appear that the permission so granted was in favour of Ved Ved Gupta in his individual capacity and not as the representative of any firm.
In the meantime by a deed dated December 7 1966 which was registered on December 24 1966 the plot in question was taken on lease jointly by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar for a period of 40 years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
Thereafter under a deed dated July 15 1969 the aforesaid three persons entered into a partnership along with 11 others under the name and style Metro Theatres for carrying on the business of constructing and running a modern air conditioned Cinema in the site covered by the permission granted by the Government.
Clause 15 of the said deed provided that the site for construction of a Cinema which had been obtained on lease by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar in their own names shall not be their personal property but shall be the property of the partnership and that the permission which Ved Gupta had obtained from the Government for construction of the Theatre in the said plot shall be treated as the property of the partnership.
By a subsequent agreement executed by the 14 partners on February 22 1969 the name of the Cinema business was changed from Metro Theatre  to Apsara Theatre.
 The construction of the Cinema Theatre appears to have been completed by the middle of June 1969.
On June 17 1969 Ved Gupta submitted an application to the District Magistrate Jammu reporting that the construction of the theatre and the installation of the cinema 580 tograph machinery and equipment had all been completed pursuant to the permission granted by the Government and requesting that the requisite licence for running the Cinema Theatre may be issued to him under the Act and the Rules.
Annexure C is a copy of the said application and it shows that it was filed by Ved Gupta in his personal capacity without any mention whatever therein of the partnership.
On July 22 1969 a licence was issued by the District Magistrate to Ved Gupta under Section 3 of the Act to give public exhibition of cinematograph films at the Apsara Theatre situated at Gandhi Nagar Jammu.
Annexure D is a copy of the said licence and it is expressly stated therein that the said licence has been granted to Shri Ved Gupta and that it shall remain in force until March 31 1970 provided that Shri Ved Gupta or any person to whom with the consent of the licensing authority the licence is transferred continues to own or manage the cinematographs used ill the said Apsara Theatre.
A Schedule of conditions imposing various duties and obligations on the licensee is also appended to the said licence.
On March 31 1970 two partners Todar Mal and Sham Kumar retired from the partnership.
Consequent thereon the firm was reconstituted and a new partnership deed was executed by the remaining partners on April 11 1970 Clause 18 of the said document contained the following recital The licence for running the Cinema by which Apsara Theatre is being run stands in the name of Shri Ved Gupta so Shakur Dass the 9th party.
The right to operate the Cinema licence shall be the property of this partnership and changes in the constitution shall make no difference in this respect.
 Soon thereafter on December 3 1975 Todar Mall who had retired from the firm and Krishan Kumar who continued to be a partner jointly issued a notice to the District Magistrate Jammu claiming that their names should also be included in the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Apsara Theatre.
Thereafter Todar Mal came up to this Court praying for the grant of special leave to appeal SLP Civil No 3490 of 1978 against the said decision of the High Court.
It reads Whereas it has been brought to my notice by Shri Ved Gupta sole licensee Apsara Theatre that the District and Sessions Judge Jammu has issued a temporary injunction against the exhibition of films by him in the above said Theatre And whereas the SP City by his letter No 1Conf.
 On Septembers 29 1980 a writ petition Writ Petition No 436 of 1980 was filed in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir by 584 Mg Apsara Theatre seeking to quash the aforsaid order passed by the District Magistrate as being illegal ultra vires and void.
Ms Apsara Theatre represented by Krishan Kumar preferred a Letters Patent Appeal LPA No l of 1981 against the judgment of the learned Single Judge.
