Civil Appeal Nos3677 3680 of 1986 Etc.
From the Judgment and Order dated 1031986 of the Karnataka High Court in WP Nos.
4053 to 4056 of 1985.
Shanti Bhushan Dr YS Chitale HB Datar KR Nagaraja 1011 RS Hegde RB Datar SS Jawali BP Singh NDB Raju RP Wadhwani Aruneshwar Gupta Swaraj Kaushal KMM Khan SR Setia ATM Sampath and CS Vaidyanathan for the appearing parties.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY J.
Special leave granted in all the cases.
These appeals raise common questions of law and may therefore be disposed of by a common judgment.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
By section 24 of Amending Act 47 of 1978 a proviso to section 637 was introduced.
We are concerned in these appeals with the vires and interpretation of this proviso.
By the time the proviso came into force 36 permits had been granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority and 14 remained to be granted.
There were as many as 495 applications for the grant of these 14 permits.
By an order dated February 1 1984 the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
A number of appeals were preferred to the Karnataka State Transport Appellate Tribunal.
The Tribunal by its order dated February 28 1985 set aside the grant of the two permits in favour of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation set aside the grant of three out of eleven permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and instead granted three permits to private operators and increased the number of permits granted to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation from one to three.
It was on that ground that the grant of two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation was set aside though the Appellate Tribunal had no doubt regarding the resources and ability of that corporation to operate the tourist services.
The Tribunal rejected their appeals regretfully.
We may now glance at some of the relevant provisions of the  section 233 defines a transport vehicle as meaning a public service vehicle or a goods vehicle.
A contract carriage is defined as broadly a motor vehicle which carries a passenger or passengers for hire or reward under a contract Tourist vehicle is defined by section 229 A as a contract carriage constructed or adapted and equipped and maintained in accordance with such specifications as the State Government may by notification in the Official Gazette specify in this behalf.
Stage carriage is defined by section 229 as a motor vehicle carrying or adapted to carry more than six persons excluding the driver which carries passengers for hire or reward at separate fares paid by or for individual passengers either for the whole journey or for stages of the journey Chapter IV sections 42 to 68 deals with Control of Transport vehicles.
Does preference of this nature deny equality guaranteed by article 14 The expression preference  amongst others means prior right advantage precedence etc.
Shri CS Vaidyanathan learned counsel for the Preferred  Operators has placed before us a Scheme for granting approval to tourist transport operators in India  The scheme makes no reference to the proviso to sec.
637 of the .
PSS Appeals allowed.
