vil Appeal No 10761077 of 1987.
From the Judgment and Order dated 1781985 of the Allahabad High Court in CM Writ No 6849 of 1984.
K Parasaran B Datta PP Rao KL Hathi Anil Nauriya SR Aggarwal Y Ramachandran UJ Rana RP Srivastava Hem 188 ant Sharma P Parmeshwaran Ms Sushma Suri and CV Subba Rao for the Appellants.
MK Ramamurthy CS Vaidyanathan section Ravindra Bhatt Mohan SR Setia and Probir Choudhary for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
The question involved in these appeals by special leave which are filed against the judgment dated August 17 1985 of the High Court of Allahabad in Civil Miscellaneous Writ No 6849 of 1984 relates to the constitu tional validity of regulation 192 of the Life Insurance Corporation of India Staff Regulations 1960 hereinafter referred to as the Staff Regulations 1960  as amended on 211.
1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India hereinafter referred to as the Corporation  which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months  notice or salary in lieu thereof.
Prior to January.
1955 there were more than 200 insur ers carrying on life insurance business in India.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers with a few exceptions were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
Pursuant to the said decision the President of India promulgated the Life Insurance Emergency Provisions Ordi nance 1956 on January 19 1956 providing for the vesting of the management of the life insurance business which was called the controlled business under the Ordinance which was being carried on by any insurer in India on that day in the Central Government and providing for its management.
On the passing of the said Ordinance the management of the controlled business of all the insurers in India thus vested in the Central Government and pending the appointment of the custodians for the controlled business of any insurer the person in charge of the management of such business immedi ately before the passing of the Ordinance was required to be in charge of the management of the business for and on behalf of the Central Government.
The Ordinance contained detailed provisions for the carrying on of the life insur ance business by 189 the Government for the time being.
The Ordinance was replaced by the which was published on 21st of March 1956.
The said Act was followed by the Act 31 of 1956 hereinafter referred to as the Act  which was published in the Gazette on 18th June 1956.
The Act howev er came into force on 1st July 1956.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
The Corporation was accordingly established on 1st September 1956.
Under the Act the expression appointed day  is de fined as the date on which the Corporation is established.
The appointed day for the purposes of the Act is therefore September 1 1956.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
When the Corporation thus came into existence it had no employees of its own to carry on the vast business of the large number of insurers which had been taken over by it.
It therefore became necessary to transfer the services of the existing employees of the insurers to the Corporation because without the services of those employees it was almost impossible for the Corporation to run the life insur ance business in India which involved management of the various offices situated in different parts of India serv icing of lakhs of insurance policies the administration of the assets taken over from the insurers and several other activities connected with the life insurance business.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
In order to meet the above need section 11 of the Act came to be enacted.
Section 11 of the Act originally stood as follows 11.
Transfer of service of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation 1 Every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with his controlled business immediately before the appointed day shall on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corporation and shall hold his office therein by the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privi leges as to pen 190 sion and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if this Act had not been passed and shall continue to do so unless and until his employ ment in the Corporation is terminated or until his remuneration terms and conditions are duly altered by the Corporation Provided that nothing contained in this sub section shall apply to any such employee who has by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to the ap pointed day intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
2 Notwithstanding anything con tained in sub section 1 or in any contract of service the Central Government may for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in it or for the purpose of reducing the remuner ation payable to employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyhold ers a reduction is called for alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thinks fit and if the alteration is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months  remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
3 If any question arises as to whether any person was a whole time employee of an insurer or as to whether any employee was employed wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business of an insurer immediately before the appointed day the question shall be referred to the Central Government whose decision shall be final.
4 Notwithstanding anything contained in the 14 of 1947 or in any other 191 law for the time being in force the transfer of the serv ices of any employee of an insurer to the Corporation shall not entitle any such employee to any compensation under that Act or other law and no such claim shall be entertained by any Court tribunal or other authority.
 Sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act provided that every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in the Corpora tion and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business immediately before the appointed day ie September 1 1956 would on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corpora tion and would hold his office therein by the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and condi tions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if the Act had not been passed and would continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation was terminated and until his remunera tion terms and conditions were duly altered by the Corpora tion.
The proviso to that sub section provided that nothing contained in sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act would apply to any such employee who had by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to September 1 1956 intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
The whole time employees of the erstwhile insurers whose services were thus transferred to the Corpo ration are hereinafter referred to as the transferred employees  of the Corporation.
The conditions of service of these transferred employ ees of the Corporation whose services were transferred to the Corporation under section 111 of the Act were not uniform.
