Civil Appeal No 8440 of 1983.
From the Judgment and Order dated 22483 of the High Court of Bombay in Writ Petition No 238882.
MK Ramamurthy and AK Sanghi for the Appellant.
Dr YS Chitale PH Parekh RK Dhillon Ms Sunita Sharma and Dr D Chandrachud for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
The question which arises for consideration in this case is whether the law reports namely All India Reporter Criminal Law Journal Labour and Industrial Cases Taxation Law Reports Allahabad Law Journal and UP Law Tribune published by the 1st respondent All India Reporter Limited are newspapers as defined in the Working Journalists and Other Newspaper Employees Conditions of Service and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1955 Act No 45 of 1955 hereinafter referred to as the Act  and whether the employees of the 1st respondent engaged in the production or publication of the said law reports are entitled to the benefits conferred upon the employees of newspaper establishments by the Act.
The Act was enacted on 20th December 1955 with the object of regulating certain conditions of service of working journalists and other employees employed in the newspaper establishments.
The expression newspaper is defined by section 2b of the Act as follows  Newspaper means any printed periodical work containing public news or comments on public news and includes such other class of printed periodical work as may from time to time be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazette 779 A newspaper employee is defined by section 2c of the Act as any working journalist and includes any other person employed to do any work in or in relation to any newspaper establishment.
Newspaper establishment is defined by section 2d of the Act as an establishment under the control of any person or body of persons whether incorporated or not for the production or publication of one or more newspapers or for conducting any news agency or syndicate.
The expression working journalist is defined by section 2f of the Act as a person whose principal avocation is that of a journalist and who is employed as such either whole time or part time in or in relation to one or more newspaper establishments and includes an editor a leader writer news editor sub editor feature writer copy tester reporter correspondent cartoonist news photographer and proof reader but does not include any such person who is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature.
A non journalist newspaper employee means any person employed to do any work in or in relation to any newspaper establishment but does not include any such person who is a working journalist or is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature as stated in section 2dd of the Act.
Chapter II of the Act deals with certain conditions of service of the working journalists.
Those provisions relate to the retrenchment payment of gratuity hours of work leave fixation or revision of wages etc.
Chapter IIA of the Act deals with similar conditions of service of non journalist newspaper employees.
Section 9 of the Act authorises the Central Government to appoint a Wage Board consisting of two persons representing employers in relation to newspaper establishments two persons representing working journalists and three independent persons one of whom shall be a person who is or has been a Judge of a High Court or of the Supreme Court and who shall be appointed by that Government as the Chairman thereof for the purpose of making recommendations with regard to fixation or revision of wages of working journalists.
Similarly section 13C of the Act provides for the constitution of a Wage Board for the purpose of making recommendations regarding the fixation or revision of the rates of wages in respect of non journalist news 780 paper employees.
Section 13AA which was inserted by Act 6 of 1979 provides for the constitution of a Tribunal for fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists where the Central Government is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 9 for the purpose of fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists under the Act has not been able to function effectively.
That Tribunal has to consist of a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court.
Similarly section 13DD of the Act empowers the Central Government to constitute a Tribunal where it is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 13C of the Act has not been able to function effectively.
Section 13AA and section 13DD of the Act came into force with effect from January 31 1979.
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 13AA and section 13DD of the Act the Central Government constituted under two separate notifications two Tribunals on 921979 with Justice Palekar a former Judge of the Supreme Court as the member of each of the two Tribunals to make recommendations in respect of fixing or revising wages of working journalists as well as non working journalists.
Justice Palekar made his recommendations on 1281980.
In exercise of its powers under section 12 of the Act the Central Government accepted a part of the recommendations and made an order thereon on 26121980 and accepted the remaining part of the recommendations and made another order thereon on 2071981.
The 1st respondent All India Reporter Limited was not served with any individual notice by the Tribunal before it passed its award.
The 1st respondent also did not send a reply to the questionnaire issued by the Tribunal nor it gave any evidence before the Tribunal in respect of the matters referred to therein.
However on 1571981 and 381981 the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur wrote to the 1st respondent asking it to file its written statements in the matter of non implementation of the Palekar Award as the orders of the Central Government made under section 12 of the Act were popularly called.
The first respondent submitted its reply in October 1981 inter alia contending that it was not running a newspaper establishment and publications published by the company were not the newspapers and as such the Palekar Award was not applicable to it.
Again on 18th November 1982 the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur wrote a letter to the Manager of the 1st respondent informing him that the 1st respondent was liable to implement the order of the Central Government made on the recommendations of the Palekar Tribunal in respect of its employees since the Ist respondent was a newspaper establishment.
Immediately after the service of the said notice the Ist respon 781 dent filed a writ petition on the file of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay Nagpur Bench in Writ Petition No 2388 of 1982 questioning the validity of the notice served on it by the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur calling upon it to implement the orders of the Central Government on the basis of the award of the Palekar Tribunal.
Justice AN Grover who later became a Judge of the Supreme Court of India and the Chairman of the Press Council as a Judge of the Punjab  Haryana High Court held in LD Jain vs General Manager Government of India Press and Others ILR 1967 Punjab and Haryana 193 that the Gazette of India which was the official publication of all kinds of news and information was a newspaper within the meaning of section 2b of the Working Journalists Conditions of Service and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1955 and that it was not essential for a newspaper to conform strictly to the usual pattern of a daily or weekly or monthly newspaper or a magazine containing news which members of the public ordinarily read in order to get reports of recent events comments on them etc.
