From the Judgment and Order dated 9101987 of t he Central Administrative Tribunal Chandigarh in Appln.
T 1055 of 1986.
WITH SLP Civil No 6998 of 1988 VC Mahajan Mrs Indu Goswami CV Subba Rao P Parmeshwaran for the Appellant in CA No 1709 of 1988.
MKD Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP Civil N o 6998 of 1988.
SM Ashri and Mahabir Singh for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K JAGANNATHA SHETTY J.
The civil appeal by speci al leave and the connected SLP raise an important issue as to the power of the Central Administration Tribun al Tribunal to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded by the competent authority to a Government servant in discipl i nary proceedings.
Short factual background is this Parmanand Respondent in the appeal was a Time Keeper in Beas Sutlej Link Project Sundernagar.
He was incharge of preparing the pay bills and other bills of the work charg ed employees of the project.
He made this entry with ulterior motive to withdraw the pay of Ashok Kumar for the month of May 1969 even though Ash ok Kumar was not working in that Division.
A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar TNo.
59 T with the sign a tures of the issuing officer was also prepared by the r e spondent although it was not his duty to prepare the ident i ty card.
The said fictitious identity card was used by o ne Suraj Singh cleaner T No 210 K of Beggi Tunnelling Div i sion for the purpose of withdrawing the pay of Ashok Kuma r.
While Suraj Singh by impersonation was receiving the pay of Ashok Kumar he was recognised by the Cashier since he kn ew him personally.
There then started an enquiry followed by departmental proceedings against three persons includi ng the respondent herein.
The Personnel Officer of the 23 BSL Project was appointed as Inquiry Officer.
The enqui ry was conducted under the Punjab Government Servants Condu ct Rules 1966.
 After a detailed enquiry against the respondent and t wo others the Inquiry Officer found all the three guilty of the charge framed against each of them.
The report of e n quiry was forwarded to the competent authority who aft er giving an opportunity of being heard dismissed the respon d ent from service.
The other two persons were let off wi th minor punishments of withholding two or three future incr e ments in their pay scales.
The respondent moved the High Court of Himachal Prade sh under Article 226 challenging the findings of Inquiry off i cer as well as the order of dismissal passed by the comp e tent authority.
It also provides power to constitute Benches of the Centr al Administrative Tribunal.
Indeed the contention for the respondent is unsustainab le in view of the decisions of this Court.
The person unsuccessfully moved the High Court with a wr it petition challenging the order of the Commissioner a nd finally appealed to the Supreme Court.
The standard of proof required is that of preponderance of probability and not proof beyond reasonable doubt.
The Tribunal cannot interfere with the findings of t he Inquiry Officer or competent authority where they are n ot arbitrary or utterly perverse.
He 36 was a party to the fraudulent act for self aggrandisemen t.
