it case for initiating any procee d ings for contempt against the respondents.
109F  ORIGINAL JURISDICTION Writ Petition Civil No 530 of 1983 etc.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
VA Bobde Shyam Mudaliar VM Tarkunde GL Sangh i AK Sanghi Mrs R Karanjawala Mrs Meenakshi Karanjawa la NM Popli and VJ Francis for the Petitioners.
Ms A Subhashini DN Dwivedi Girish Chandra CV section Rao MC Dhingra and NK Sharma for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by OJHA J.
The petitioners in the aforementioned wr it petitions claim to have been appointed as Supervisors Gra de A  in various ordnance factories between 1962 to 1966 a nd have filed these writ petitions with the prayer that t he same relief may be granted to them also as was granted by this Court to 75 appellants in Civil Appeal No 441 of 19 81 vide its order dated 2nd February 1981.
The three civ il miscellaneous petitions referred to above on the other ha nd have been made by the appellants of Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 asserting that the direction given by this Court on 2 nd February 1981 has not been complied with in the manner as it ought to have been by the respondents and they should be consequently required to comply with the said direction.
T he exact nature of the prayer made in these miscellaneo us applications shall be indicated after referring to t he relief granted on 2nd February 1981 in Civil Appeal No 4 41 of 1981.
The 75 appellants of Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 fil ed a writ petition in the Allahabad High Court in 1972 asser t ing that they had been appointed as Supervisors Grade A  on various dates in pursuance of a circular dated 6th Novembe r 1962 issued by the Director General of Ordnance Factorie s the relevant portion whereof reads as hereunder Subject NON INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT PROMOTION DGOF has decided that Diploma holders serving as 97 Supervisor A  TechSupervisor B Tech and in equiv a lent grades should be treated as follows i All those Diploma holders who have been appointed as Supervisor B  Tech and in equivalent grades should on completion of one year s satisfactory service in ordnan ce factories be promoted to Supervisor A  Tech and in equi v alent grades ii All those Diploma holders who work satisfactorily as Supervisor A  Tech or in equivalent grades for 2 years in Ordnance Factory should be promoted to Chargeman.
Kindly acknowledge receipt.
Sd KG Bijlani ADGOFEst.
for DGOF Their grievance in the writ petition was that ev en though quite a large number of Supervisors Grade A  h ad been promoted to the post of Chargeman grade II on compl e tion of two years  satisfactory work they had been discrim i nated against and had not been so promoted immediately on the expiry of two years  in pursuance of the aforesa id circular even though their work was satisfactory.
The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
The writ petition w as contested by the respondents thereto inter alia on t he ground that under the rules of promotion from Supervisor  A  to Chargeman II first Departmental Promotion Committee at the factory level and then a Departmental Committee at t he Central level screens the service record of each of t he Supervisors A  who comes within the range of eligibili ty and then finally the Director General of Ordnance Factori es draws up a list and sanctions promotions.
It was furth er asserted that in accordance with the said rule the cases of all the appellants were screened by the Promotion Committ ee at the factory level and then at the Central level and th ey not having been found fit were not promoted.
It appears th at the criterion of promotion is seniority cum merit.
T he learned Single Judge however did not go into the merits of the controversy and dismissed the writ petition on t he ground of unexplained laches and also on the ground that a previous petition for similar relief had not been presse d Against the 98 judgment of the learned Single Judge the appellants pr e ferred a special appeal before a Division Bench of th at Court.
The learned Judges who decided the special appeal d id not consider it appropriate to uphold the dismissal of t he writ petition on the technical ground which found favo ur with the learned Single Judge and they went into the meri ts of the respective contentions of the parties.
They howeve r did not find any substance in the submission made on beha lf of the appellants and accordingly dismissed the speci al appeal on 8th February 1977.
The learned Judges pointed o ut that it was admitted that the conditions of service applic a ble to the case of the appellants were governed by t he Indian Ordnance Factories Recruitment and Conditions of Service of Class III Personnel Rules 1956 hereinaft er referred to as the Rules framed by the President of Ind ia under Article 309 of the Constitution.
It was further poin t ed out that Rule 8 contemplated that appointments by prom o tion were to be made on the basis of a selection list pr e pared for the different grades by duly constituted Depar t mental Promotion Committees laid down in the said ru le whereas Rule 12 provided that no appointment to the posts to which these rules apply shall be made otherwise than as specified therein.
With regard to the circular dated 6 th November 1962 the learned Judges took the view that it w as difficult to read in that circular any intention or delibe r ation on the part of the Director General of Ordnance Fact o ries that as soon as two years were completed by a diplo ma holder in the Grade of Supervisor A  there would be an automatic promotion to the post of Chargeman Il.
Accordi ng to the learned Judges such a view would militate again st Rule 12 of the Rules mentioned above.
It was further he ld that even if it was to be assumed that the Director Gener al of Ordnance Factories automatically promoted some Superv i sors A  immediately on the completion of 2 years of servi ce to the post of Chargeman II without the recommendation aft er screening by the Promotion Committee no right would accr ue in favour of the appellants inasmuch as such promotio ns would be in the teeth of Rule 12 and could not confer a legal right on the appellants to be likewise promoted in breach of Rule 12.
With regard to the plea based on Artic le 16 of the Constitution.
it was held A half hearted argume nt was raised at the end of the hearing on behalf of the appe l lant petitioners that they have been discriminated again st by depriving them the benefit of automatic promotion in violation of constitutional guarantee under Article 16 of the Constitution.
This was an argument neither pleaded as a ground for the petition nor was raised before the learn ed Single Judge.
Moreover we do not think any case on t he basis of violation of Article 16 of the Constitution can be found in favour of the appellant petitioners only becau se some 99 supervisors equally placed were promoted against the rul es of service.
No formal foundation has been raised in t he pleadings in the writ petition in support of the grou nd based on Article 16 of the Constitution.
 It is against this judgment that Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 was preferred in this Court.
Since the order dated 2 nd February 1981 passed in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 so to speak constitutes the basis for the writ petitions me n tioned above it is in our opinion expedient to reprodu ce the said order.
It reads Heard counsel.
Special leave granted.
Our attention has been invited by learned counsel for bo th the sides to the relevant rules which govern promotion to the post of Chargeman Grade II.
It appears that a lar ge number of persons have been promoted to those posts thou gh they have completed only two years of service.
The Gover n ment now appears to insist that in so far as the appellan ts are concerned they cannot be considered for promotion unle ss they complete three years of service.
We see no justific a tion for any such differential treatment being given to t he appellants.
If a large number of other persons similar ly situated have been promoted as Chargeman Grade II aft er completing two years of service there is no reason why t he appellants should also not be similarly promoted aft er completing the same period of service.
We Therefore direct that the concerned authoriti es will consider the cases of the appellants for promotion as Chargeman Grade II and promote them to the said posts unle ss they are found to be unfit.
If the appellants are promote d they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
This order will dispose of the appeal.
The prayer made in Civil Miscellaneo us Petition No 3325 of 1987 is for the issue of an inter im order restraining the respondents from making any furth er promotions during the pendency and final heating of t he miscellaneous petition and for initiating contempt procee d ings.
Almost analogous prayer had been made in Miscellaneo us Petition No 9357 of 1983 also namely that the responden ts may be restrained from promoting officers to the next high er posts on the basis of recommendations of certain Departme n tal Promotion Committees without complying with the dire c tions of this Court in its order dated 2nd February 198 1.
The main relie fs which have been prayed for apart from for initiating pr o ceedings for contempt for disobedience of the order of th is Court dated 2nd February 1981 are reliefs i ii a nd iii contained in Civil Miscellaneous Petition No 9356 of 1983.
They are as hereunder i pass appropriate orders directing the respondents to implement in true letter and spirit the judgment of th is Hon ble Court dated 221981 in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1 98 1 ii issue appropriate directions commanding the responden ts to promote the appellants to the next higher posts of Chargeman Grade I Assistant Foreman and Foreman wi th effect from the date they are entitled to after giving th em the benefit of the directions of this Hon ble Court dat ed 221981 iii issue appropriate directions to the respondents to give all consequential benefits to the appellants includi ng payment of arrears.
Learned counsel for the petitioners contended that t he reason which weighed with this Court in allowing Civ il Appeal No 441 of 1981 applies to these writ petitions al so and the same relief may accordingly be granted to the pet i tioners.
It was urged that in case the sa me relief is not granted to the petitioners they are likely to become juniors to some of the appellants in Civil Appeal N o 441 of 1981 and the petitioners in the writ petitions deci d ed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April 1983.
the earli er circular dated 6th November 1962 which provides Sub NG Establishment Treatment of Diplo ma Holders and ex apprentices serving as Supr.
Ref This office confidential No 673ANG dt.
62 and 4416ANG dt.
29665.
or in equivalent grades has received further consi d eration of the DGOF who has decided that in futu re promotions of all such individuals will be effected in accordance with the normal rules ie on the basis of the ir listing by the relevant DPC and not merely on completi on of 2 years satisfactory continuous service as Supr.
vs The State of Mah a rashtra  Ors  that in the absence of legislative Rules it was competent to the State Governme nt to take a 103 decision in the exercise of its executive power under Art i cle 162 of the Constitution.
Soraasundararn Viswanath  Ors 198 8 3 SC Judgments Today 724 wherein it has been held It is well settled that the norms regarding recruitment a nd promotion of officers belonging to the Civil Services can be laid down either by a law made by the appropriate Legisl a ture or by rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India or by means of executive instru c tions issued under Article 73 of the Constitution of Ind ia in the case of Civil Services under the Union of India a nd under Article 162 of the Constitution of India in the ca se of Civil Services under the State Governments.
9356 57 of 1983.
As already noticed earlier certain writ petitions filed in Madhya Pradesh High Court were allowed by that Court on 4 th April 1983 relying on the judgment of this Court dated 2 nd February 1981 in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981.
