etition Civil Nos.
12676 77 of 1985 etc.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India RF Nariman PH Parekh NN Keshwani Mrs H Wahi and RN Keshwani for the Petitioners.
408 GA Shah MN Shroff KMM Khan and TU Mehta for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH CJ.
The petitioners in these petitions have questioned the validity of a notification issued by the Government of Gujarat on June 26 1985 in exercise of its powers conferred by Section 15 of the 67 of 1957 herein after referred to as the Act amending the Gujarat Minor Mineral Rules 1966 hereinafter referred to as the Rules with effect from 1 7 1985 substituting the original rule 21 of the Rules by a new rule which reads as follows 21.
Rate of Royality The holder of a quarry lease or any other mineral concession granted under these rules shall pay royalty in respect of minor minerals specified in column 2 of the schedule removed or consumed by him or by his agent manager employee contractor or sub lessee from the leased area at the rates respectively specified against them in column 3 of the said schedule.
Provided that i the holder of a Parwana granted under these rules shall pay royalty at the rate of fifty percent of the rate of royalty specified in the said schedule.
ii no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year.
iii no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters if their annual produc tion is not exceeding two lakhs bricks and they supply at least one lakh bricks to the Rural Housing Board or Panchayats.
iv Royalty shall be recoverable in whole rupees fraction fifty paise and above to be rounded upwards to a whole rupee and fraction below fifty paise shall be ignored and fixing the royalty payable by the lessees in respect of minor minerals known as Black Trap and Hard Murrum at Rs7 per metric tonne by amending schedule of the Rules which was being levied at Rs 4 till the date of the said amendment.
409 In order to understand the case of the petitioners it is necessary to set out some other provisions of law governing the case.
The Act was passed in the year 1957 by Parliament to provide for the regulation of mines and development of minerals under the control of the Union and it was made applicable to the whole of India.
Under section 3A of the Act the word minerals  is defined as including all minerals except mineral oils.
Clause e of the said section defines minor minerals  as building stones gravel ordinary clay ordinary sand other than sand used for prescribed purposes and any other mineral which the Central Government may.
by notification in the Official Gazette declare to be a minor mineral.
It is not disputed that Black Trap and Hard Murrum are notified as minor minerals.
The Act has made provision with regard to the issue of prospecting licences and mining leases in respect of various kinds of minerals other than minor minerals and the procedure to be followed in that connection in the matter of issue of prospecting licences and mining leases.
Section 9 of the act empowers the Central Government to levy royalty in respect of the minerals which are won by the mining lease holders under the Act at the rates prescribed in the Second Schedule to the Act.
It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
Section 14 of the Act provides that sections 5 to 13 inclusive shall not apply to quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in respect of minor minerals.
Section 15 as it stood during the relevant time read thus 15.
1 The State Government may by notifi cation in the Official Gazette make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected therewith.
Rule 21 of the Rules provides for the determination of the rate of royalty payable in respect of minor minerals.
It is under this notification the rate of royalty in respect of black trap and Hard Murrum was increased from Rs 4 to Rs7 per metric tonne.
vs State of Gujarat and Ors.
vs The State of Tamil Nadu etc 1989 4 SC Judgments Today 190 that the royalty levied on the extracted mineral was in the nature of a tax and it was not in the nature of a fee which could be used 412 only for specific purposes.
These petitions are dismissed with costs.
