ivil Misc.
Petition No 15001 of 1989.
AND IA No 1 of 1989 in SLP No 12288 of 1984.
From the Judgment and Order dated 2041984 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Appeal No 472 of 1976.
K Mahadeva Reddy Ms Manjul Gupta TVSN Chari and A Subba Rao for the Petitioner.
K Ram Kumar SA Ahmed Tanweer Abdul and Mohan Pandey for the Respondents.
The following Order of the Court was delivered 540 The special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution is directed against the affirming judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in a suit for title and injunction.
In view of the fact that a petition of compromise in respect of the entire subject matter of litigation has been filed in this Court it is unnecessary to refer to the facts leading to the litigation.
We shall therefore confine the discussion to matters pertinent to the compromise.
Subbamma adopted one KV Seshiah.
Seshiah married two wives.
Through the first wife he had a son born to him by name Sudarshan Gupta and through the second another son by name Anand Babu.
In February 1985 during the pendency of the special leave petition the adoptive mother died.
Sudarshan and Anand Babu led claim to the entire property of Subbamma exclusively to each of them under two different wills said to be by subbamma and each contended that the other will was a forged one.
With the death of the adoptive mother Seshiah led claim to the entire property as heir.
While each of the parties had taken such stand in the litigation a compromise was brought about on 2181987 between the father and his two sons and the same was filed in this Court.
The terms of the compromise stipulated payment of Rs 1 lakh by the father to each of his two sons in lieu of relinquishment of their interest.
When the matter was listed before the Court for recording of the compromise Sudarshan Gupta second respondent herein maintained that he had not been paid Rs1 lakh as stipulated and he had no intention to accept the compromise.
The question as to recording of the compromise was taken up by the Court and parties have been heard.
One of the stipulation in the compromise deed which has admittedly been signed by the father and his two sons stipulates The petitioner has given to the second and third respondents the two sons an amount of Rs 1 lakh each and the second and third respondents have received the same In the face of such a statement in the compromise deed signed by the parties the second respondent had disputed the fact of payment and has in the meantime alienated about 81 acres of property which constitutes the subject matter of dispute to third parties.
The alienees 541 have now been brought on record unders order of this Court.
We have heard counsel for the original parties as also the alienees.
The alienations are for about a purported consideration of Rs 4 lakhs.
The sale deeds indicate that a sum of Rs 1 lakh had been received earlier and a net amount of Rs77124 out of the consideration money under these documents has been paid before the registering authority.
The alienees have admittedly been in possession of the property from the date of the sales which is more than three years  old by now.
In fact if the compromise is valid and binding the alienor respondent No 2 had no interest in the property to part with in view of the stipulation in the compromise that on receipt of Rs 1 lakh he relinquished his entire interest in the property.
Respondent No 2 and his counsel Mr Ram Kumar have accepted the fact that the parties have signed the compromise petition which contain terms which they had accepted and all parties have accepted the document of compromise to be genuine.
Seshaiah shall pay a sum of Rs 1 lakh more to Sudarshan Gupta within eight weeks from today.
543 4.
