The respondent and 49 other persons were charged with various offences alleged to have been committed by them in the course of their raid as an armed gang on a certain factory known as the Jessop Factory at Dum Dum and they were convicted and sentenced to varying terms of imprison ment by the Special Court to which the case was sent for trial by the Governor of West Bengal by a notification dated 26th January 1950 in exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 1 of the Act.
2 Nodirection shall be made under sub section 1 for the trial of an offence for which an accused person was being tried at the commencement of this Act before any court but save as aforesaid such direction may be made in re spect of an offence whether such  offence was committed before or after the commencement of this Act.
 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
 Before considering whether section 51 infringes to any and what extent the constitutional prohibition under article 14 it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
292 purports to provide for the matters to be tried by a special court and does not in form seek to define the kind or class of offences or cases which the State Government is empowered under the Act to assign to such a court for trial.
The object of the law we assume until the lower Court shall decide otherwise is single to keep up competition and the general language is to be restricted by the specific provi sions and to the particular end.
2  293 offences as there can of course be no trial of offences in the abstract and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature for a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
294 pledge of the protection of equal laws Yick Wo vs Hopkins 1 that is Jaws that operate alike on all persons under like circumstances.
It is the essence of a classification said Mr Justice Brewer in Atchison Topeka  Santa Fe R Co vs Matthews 3 that upon the class are cast duties and burdens different from those resting upon the general public.
It seems like a contradiction to say that a law having equality of operation may yet give equality of protection.
2 299 That is to say the ordinance was what the Privy Council called a colourable legislative expedient which under the guise or pretence of doing what is constitutionally per missible in substance and purpose seeks to effect discrim ination Morgan Proprietary Ltd vs Deputy Commissioner of Taxation for New South Wales 1.
3  2  300 provision Day J observed after referring to certain prior decisions  These cases leave in no doubt the proposition that the conferring of discretionary power upon administrative boards to grant or withhold permission to carry on a trade or business which is the proper subject of regulation within the police power of the state is not violative of rights secured by the 14th Amendment.
40 306 There is no doubt that the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance 1949 which was later replaced by the impugned Act West Bengal Special Courts Act X of 1950 to be herein after referred to as the Act was a valid Ordinance when it was promulgated on the 17th August 1949.
5 There is nothing sacred or sacrosanct about the test of reasonable classification but it has undoubtedly proved to be a useful basis for meeting attacks on laws and offi cial acts on the ground of infringement of the equality principle.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
A careful perusal of this decision will make it quite clear that the Court upheld the validity of the statute impugned in that case not on the ground that the inequality was of minor importance but on the ground that the classification of establishments according to the number of workmen employed therein was based on an intelli gible distinction having a rational relation to the subject matter of the legislation in question.
