In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect of their business transactions.
Entries relating to interest were posted till the end of Samvat Year 2006 in the account on the amount due at the foot of the account.
A bad and doubtful debt due to the taxpayer written off as irrecoverable in the books of account was properly allowable in computing the taxable profits from business profession or vocation where accounts were not kept on the cash basis if the debt was in respect of a loan made in the course of the taxpayer s business as a banker or money lender or when the taxpayer was carrying on any other business the debt was in respect of that other business.
But the question on which the Tribunal was called upon to state the case was in form imprecise and in import somewhat vague.
A bad and doubtful debt due to an assessee in respect of banking or money lending business is allowable under section 102 xi if it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business.
A bad and doubtful debt in respect of a business other than banking or money lending is allowable even if it is not in respect of loan  but a debt due in the course of the business of a money lending is not allowable unless it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of his business.
Counsel said that 1 Sobhagchand Amarchand partner of the Bombay firm is the father of Seshmal one of the partners of the appellants and of the minors Ramniklal and Lakshmichand who are admitted to the benefits of partnership 2 that large amounts of money were advanced shortly before the Bombay firm closed its business and 3 that there was a consistant practice for paying or receiving interest on the 420 amounts due at the foot of the account but no interest was charged by the appellants in respect of the dues at the foot of the account at the end of Samvat Years 2007 and 2008.
In appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the Income tax Officer.
At the hearing of the appeal this Court found that the tribunal s order was very brief and that it gave no reasons in support of its conclusions.
The tribunal has accordingly submitted a further statement.
Having considered all the circumstances of the case we are of the opinion that the sums in question were not sent to the Bombay firm as loans made in the ordinary course of the money lending business of the assessee nor in respect of any other business of the assessee.
