The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD CJ.
If a partition were to take place during Khandappa s lifetime between himself and his two sons the plaintiff would have got 14th share in the joint family properties the other three getting 14th share each.
Khandappa s 14th share would devolve upon his death on six sharers the plaintiff and her five children each having a 124th share therein.
Adding 14th and 124th the plaintiff claims a 724th share in the joint family properties.
Defendants 2 to 5 admitted the plaintiff s claim the suit having H been contested by defendant 1 Gurupad only.
He contended that the suit properties did not belong to the joint family that they were Khandappa s self requisitions and that on the date of Khandappa s 764 death in 1960 there was no joint family in existence.
The trial court by its judgment dated July 13 1965 rejected defendant 1 s case that the properties were Khandappa s self acquisitions and that he had partitioned them during his lifetime.
became indisputably entitled to a share in the joint family properties but following the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Shiramabai Bhimgonda vs Kalgonda1 the learned trial judge limited that share to 124th refusing to add 14th and 124th together.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
In the judgment under appeal the High Court has based itself on the judgment in Rangubai Lalji2 endorsing indirectly the view that Shiramabai1 was incorrectly decided.
That section reads thus 6.
When a male Hindu dies after the commencement of this Act having at the time of his death an interest in a Mitakshara coparcenary property his interest in the property 1196366Bom.
By the application of the normal rule prescribed by that section Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would therefore devolve according to the proviso by intestate succession under the Act and not by survivorshop.
The interpretation of that Explanation is the subject matter of acute controversy between the parties.
Before considering the implications of Explanation 1 it is necessary to remember that what section 6 deals with is devolution of the interest which a male Hindu has in a Mitakshare coparcenary property at 766 the time of his death.
Since Explanation 1 is intended to be explanatory of the provisions contained in the section what the Explanation provides has to be correlated to the subject matter which the section itself deals with.
One her share in her husband s share and two her husband s own share in the coparcenary property.
The proviso to section 6 contains the formula for fixing the share of the claimant while Explanation 1 contains a formula for deducing the share of the deceased.
The deceased Khandappa died leaving behind him two sons three daughters and a widow.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
2 AIR 1974 Guj.
