77 M C Bhandare A N Karkhanis Miss Malini Panduval and Mrs section Bhandare for the Appellant.
M N Shroff for Respondent No 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by A Prefatory statement KRISHNA IYER J.
In this appeal by special leave we are called upon to interpret a benign provision enacted to ameliorate the economic condition of neglected wives and discarded divorcees namely.
s 125.
The Constitution is a pervasive omnipresence brooding over the meaning and transforming the values of every measure.
So section 125 and sister clauses must receive a compassionate expansion of sense that the words used permit.
The Brief Facts The respondent husband married the appellant wife as a second wife way back in 1956 and a few years later had a son by her.
15 The initial warmth vanished and the jealousies of a triangular situation erupted marring mutual affection.
The respondent divorced the appellant around July 1962.
A suit relating to a flat in which the husband had housed the wife resulted in a consent decree which also settled the marital disputes.
For instance it recited that this respondent had transferred the suit premises namely a flat in Bombay to the appellant and also the shares of the Cooperative Housing Society which built the flat concerned.
There was a clause in the compromise G The plaintiff declares that she has now no claim or right whatsoever against the defendant or against the estate and the properties of the defendant.
 And another term in the settlement was that the appellant had by virtue of the compromise become the absolute owner of the flat and various deposits in respect of the said flat made with the cooperative housing society.
78 For some time there was flickering improvement in the relations between the quondum husband and the quondum wife and they lived together.
Thereafter again they separated became entranged.
The appellant finding herself in financial straits and unable to maintain herself moved the magistrate under section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code 1973 for a monthly allowance for the maintenance of herself and her child.
She proceeded on the footing that she was still a wife while the respondent rejected this status and asserted that she was a divorce and therefore ineligible for maintenance.
This order was challenged before the sessions Judge by the aggrieved husband who on a strange view of the law that the court under section 125 had no jurisdication to consider whether the applicant was a wife dismissed the petition in allowance of the appeal.
The High Court deigned to bestow little attention on the matter and summarily dismissed a revision petition.
This protracted and fluctuating litigation misfortune has leu to the appeal by special leave before this Court.
The Questions Mooted Shri Bhandare appearing for the appellant contended that the Courts below had surprisingly forgotten the plain provision in the Explanation b to section 1251 of the Code which reads wife  includes a woman who has been divorced by.
This is obviously beyond dispute or.
a simple reading of the sub section and it is curious how this innovative and sensitive provision with a benignant disposition towards destitute divorcees has been overlooked by all the courts below.
We hold that every divorce otherwise eligible is entitled to the benefit of maintenance allowance and the dissolution of the marriage makes no difference to this right under the current Code.
In the normal course an order for maintenance must follow the quantum having been determined by the learned Magistrate at the trial level.
79 However Shri Sanghi appearing for the respondent sought sustain the order in his favour on three grounds They arc of pubic importance since the affected party in such a fact situation is the neglected divorcee.
He first argued that section 1254 would apply in the absence of proof that the lady was not living separately by mutual consent.
His next plea was that there must be proof of neglect to maintain to attract s125 and his third contention was that there was a settlement by consent decree in 1962 whereby the mehar money had been paid and all claims adjusted and so no claim for maintenance could survive.
The third contention is apparently based upon contractual arrangement in the consent decree read with section 1273 b which reads C b the woman has been divorced by her husband and that she has received whether before or after the date of the said order the whole of the sum which under any customary or personal law applicable to the parties was payable on such divorce cancel such order i in the case where such sum was paid before such order from the date on which such order was made.
ii in any other case from the date of expiry of the period if any for which maintenance has been actually paid by the husband to the woman We must state however that there was no specific plea based upon the latter provision set up anywhere in the courts below or urged before us.
But if one were to locate a legal ground to raise The contention That the liability to pay maintenance had ceased on account of the payment of mehar it is section 1273 of the Code.
So we must deal with the dual sub heads of the third ground.
Art153 has compelling compassionate relevance in the context of section 125 and the benefit of doubt.
If any in statutory interpretation belongs to the ill used wife and the derelict divorcee.
Surely Parliament in keeping with article 153 and deliberate by design made a special provision to help women in distress cast away by divorce.
Protection against moral and material abandonment manifest in article 39 is part of social and economic justice specificated in article 38 fulfilment of which is fundamental to the governance of the country Art37.
80 section 125 requires as a sine qua non for its application neglect by husband or father.
Obviously he has no case of non neglect.
In this generous jurisdiction a broader perception and appreciation of the facts and their bearing must govern the verdict not chopping little logic or tinkering with burden of proof.
The next submission is that the absence of mutual consent to live separately must be made out if the hurdle of section 1254 is to be over come.
If law has nexus with life this argument is still born.
The last defence based on mehar payment merits more serious attention.
The contractual limb of the contention must easily fail.
Nor can s127 rescue the respondent from his obligation.
Payment of mehar money as a customary discharge is within the cognisance of that provision.
The keynote thought is adequacy of payment which will take reasonable care of her maintenance.
No construction which leads to frustration of the statutory project can secure validation if the court is to pay true homage to the Constitution.
The only just construction of the section is that Parliament intended divorcees should not derive a double benefit.
The whole scheme of section 1273 b is manifestly to recognise the substitute maintenance arrangement by lump sum payment organised by the custom of the community or the personal law of the parties.
Law is dynamic and its meaning cannot he pedantic but purposeful.
The conclusion that we therefore reach is that the appeal should be allowed and it is hereby allowed and the order of the trial court restored.
