The deity of his worship was Shri Vithal Rukhamai.
The High Court by its order of 1920th December 1962 set aside the order of the District Judge and held the Sansthan to be a public trust under the Act and restored the order of the Charity Commissioner.
His only contention is that it is a private religious endowment and not a public one.
He submits that there is no evidence of long user of this temple by 521 the public as a matter of right.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
This is a document which was relied upon both by the District Judge as well as by the High Court.
That ownership is of your own.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
As stated above we are unable to hold that recitals in these documents taken as a whole can reasonably lead to the conclusion that the Sansthan is a private property.
Again in the gift deed exhibit 39 the donee is described as Shri Rukhmini Pandurang Sansthan Sansthan Amalner Sakharam Maharaj at present Vasudev Buwa Guru Bal 525 krishna Maharaj.
It is clear that the beneficiaries of the deeds are the deity and the Sansthan and the gifts were made with the object of maintenance of the worship of the deity for the benefit of the Hindu public as a whole.
Distinguishing the decision of the Privy Council in Bahu Bhagwan Din vs Gir Har Saroon on the ground that the properties in that case were granted not in favour of an idol or temple but in favour of one Daryao Gir who was maintaining a temple and to his heirs in perpetuity this Court further held in the above decision But in the present case the endowment was in favour of the idol itself and the point for decision is whether it 527 was private or public endowment.
Your bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
The Bhajans at Pandharpur performed by Maharaj are attended by the public.
When the origin of an endowment is obscure and no direct oral evidence is available the Court will have to resolve the controversy about the character of the trust on documentary evidence if any the object and purpose for which the trust was created the consistent manner in which the property has been dealt with or managed by those in charge the manner in which the property has long been used by the public the contribution of the public to all intents and purposes as a matter of right without the least interference or restriction from the temple authorities to foster maintenance of the worship the accretion to the trust property by way of grants from the state of gifts from outsiders inconsistent with the private nature of the trust the nature of devolution of the property are all important elements in determination of the question whether a property is a private or a public religious endowment.
