According to the appellant the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oilStyrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
Furthermore no cost was in fact incurred by the assessee.
It has to be borne in mind that the scheme of old section 4 of the Act and new section 4 is the same as was held by this Court in the case of Bombay Tyre International supra at pages 376 E F 377 H and 378 A B H of the Report.
It is only that degree of secondary packing which is necessary for assessable articles to be in the condition in which it is generally sold in the wholesale market which can be included at the factory gate which should be included in the value of the article.
It was held by Pathak J as the learned Chief Justice then was that such cost of corrugated fibreboard containers could not be in cluded in the determination of value in section 44di of the Act for the purposes of excise duty.
It is apparent from the wide language according to the learned Chief Justice of Explanation to section 44di that every kind of container in which it can be said that the excisable goods are contained would be packing  within the meaning of the Explanation.
It was conceivable that the wholesale dealer who takes delivery might have its depot at a very short distance only from the factory gate or may have such transport arrangements available that damage or injury to the cigarettes could be avoided.
But as a matter of fact delivery in drums was only to facilitate their transport in small quantities.
From these tanks the goods were removed directly and placed in vehicles for their movement for 90 of the sales the vehicle of removal was tankers and 10 of the sales the vehicle of removals was drums.
In the premises the value of the drums with regard to the fusel oilstyrene monomer irrespective of whether these were supplied by the assessee or not are not includible in the assessable value of the Styrene Monomer.
RANGANATHAN J I have perused the judgment proposed to be delivered by my learned brother Sabyasachi Mukharji J I agree with the conclusion arrived at by him but I would like to rest it entirely on the language of section 44di of the Central Excises  Salt Act 1944 without going into the larger questions raised by counsel and dealt with by my learned brother.
If the manufacturer supplies the drums and charges the customers separately therefore then under section 44di the cost of the drums to the buyer has to be added to the price except where the packing is of durable nature and is to be returned to the manufacturer.
