this appeal with special leave is directed against the judgment and order of the labour appellate tribunal of india in a dispute regarding the workers claim for bonus.
during the year 1948 the appellant made a profit of rs 1197648 11 9.
it paid 24 3 per cent.
dividend on ordinary shares being the maximum that could be paid under the public companies limitation of dividend ordinance of 1948 and also paid to the workers their full share of bonus at annas 4 in a rupee of their basic earnings.
during the year 1949 the selling rates for cloth and yarn were controlled by the government and were approximately 4 per cent.
below those obtained in 1948.
the basic wages were increased from the 1st december 1948 by order of the government of uttar pradesh and the total wages paid were therefore higher than those in the previous year.
there was moreover indiscipline amongst the workers and production suffered.
there was a strike in the month of october and the mills were closed for nearly a month.
further the management were unable to secure cotton which resulted in the curtailment of the working hours.
as a result of all these circumstances the appellant suffered a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10.
a sum of rs 250000 being the excess reserve for taxation was written back and a sum of rs 1001871 13 5 being the amount of reserve transferred from the investment account was also brought in.
an aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 was thus brought into the balance sheet by these two transfers.
the trading loss was deducted from this amount leaving a credit balance of rs 749308 11 7 and that amount was shown as the profit for the year 1949 in the balance sheet for that year.
the balance which had been brought forward from the previous year was added thereto and a dividend of 2434 per cent.
was paid to the ordinary shareholders.
the appellant also paid ex gratia to the workmen bonus at the rate of annas 2 per rupee of their basic earnings making it clear by their notification dated the 7th april 1950 that the directors had sanctioned the payment at that rate in spite of the appellant having suffered a trading loss for the year that it was being paid entirely at the discretion of the appellant and was not related to or connected with any contract of employment of any worker.
on the 4th may 1950 the secretary of the respondent union petitioned to the provincial conciliation officer textile that there was more production in 1949 than in 1948 that there was no reason to hold that the profit in 1949 was less than in the previous year and that the rate of bonus was wrongly reduced and asked that bonus for 1949 should also be paid at the rate of annas 4 per rupee.
the industrial dispute which thus arose was referred for enquiry and recording of an award to the regional conciliation board textile kanpur.
the conciliation board by a majority decision repelled the contention of the appellant and awarded the payment of bonus at annas 4 per rupee.
on an appeal taken by the appellant to the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur the industrial court accepted the contention of the appellant allowed the appeal and set aside the award.
the respondent thereupon appealed to the labour appellate tribunal which substantially agreed with the industrial court on questions of fact as well as the general position in law but imported considerations of social justice and treating this as a special case where social justice would demand that labour should have bonus for the year where for that very year capital had not only a reasonable return but much in excess of that allowed the appeal and directed the appellant to pay to the workmen bonus at the rate of annas 4 per rupee within six weeks of their decision.
the appellant filed this appeal against that decision after obtaining special leave from this court.
both the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal found as a fact that there was a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10 during the year 1949 and also.
that the dividend of 2434 per cent.
to the ordinary shareholders was distributed after transferring the aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 from the reserves.
the question which therefore arises for our consideration is mainly whether the workers are entitled to the payment of a bonus in spite of the employer having worked at a loss during the year and incidentally whether the workers have any right title or interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the previous years.
this definition was adopted by stirling j in in re eddystone marine insurance co l r i894 w n 30 webster s international dictionary defines bonus as something given in addition to what is ordinarily received by or strictly due to the recipient.
the oxford concise dictionary defines it as something to the good into the bargain and as an example gratuity to workmen beyond their wages.
vide encyclopaedia britannica volume iii page 856.
it also gives another meaning of the word bonus viz increased compensation for services already rendered gratuitously or for a prescribed compensation where there is neither express or implied understanding that additional compensation may be granted.
the same would ripen into a legally enforceable claim.
a c 166 i87 this payment if made can not properly in my opinion be regarded as a mere gratuity.
but second the meaning of the word bonus is not given to it by the objection.
it is thus defined by webster.
a premium given for a loan or a charter or other privilege granted to a company as the bank paid a bonus for its charter a sum paid in addition to a stated compensation.
it is not a gift or gratuity but a sum paid for services or upon a consideration in addition to or in excess of that which would ordinarily be given 12.
the principles for the grant of bonus were discussed and a formula was evolved by the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal in millowners association bombay v rashtreeya mill mazdoor sangh bombay 1950.
on the paid up capital.
it is therefore clear that the claim for bonus can be made by the employees only if as a result of the joint contribution of capital and labour the industrial concern has earned profits.
because if it were so it would necessarily rank for precedence before dividends the dividends can only be paid out of profits and unless and until profits are made no occasion or question can also arise for distribution of any sum as bonus amongst the employees.
this has been clearly recognised even in the various decisions of the labour appellate tribunal e g nizam sugar factory ltd hyderabad v their workmen 1952.
this case was negatived by the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal both of whom held that the working of the appellant during the year 1949 had resulted in a loss.
whereas the industrial court declined to grant the respondent any relief because the working of the appellant during the year had resulted in a loss the labour appellate tribunal made a special case for the respondent in spite of its concurrence with that finding of the industrial court.
it is significant to observe that this principle was accepted by the labour appellate tribunal itself.
as at present advised a claim for bonus which had been rested on profits earned should ordinarily be determined on the basis of the profits earned in the year under claim and that the scale of bonus should be determined on the quantum of profits earned in the year.
it however observed but in our opinion that should not be the universal rule.
considerations of social justice can not be disregarded altogether in relations between capital and labour.
the labour appellate tribunal did not accept the contention of the respondent that bonus should be linked to dividends nor did it rest its decision on the respondent having a right title and interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the appellant.
even on a winding up of a company the property of the company would be applied in satisfaction of its liabilities pari passu and unless the articles of association of the company otherwise provided in distribution amongst the members according to their rights and interest in the company.
the employees would in no event be entitled to any share or interest in the assets and the capital of the company.
the shareholders only would be entitled to such benefit and the mere fact that dividends were declared and paid to the shareholders out of such reserves and undistributed profits would not entitle the workers to demand bonus when in fact the working of the industrial concern during the particular year had showed a loss.
the ratio which applies in the case of the shareholders who acquire the right title and interest of their predecessorsin interest does not apply to the labour force and the fact that the shareholders get a dividend by transfer of funds from the reserves and undistributed profits of the previous years would not entitle the workers to demand bonus out of those funds if the working of the industrial concern during the particular year has resulted in a trading loss.
the considerations of social justice imported by the labour appellate tribunal in arriving at the decision in favour of the respondent were not only irrelevant but untenable.
mr isaacs the learned counsel for the respondent.
this can be achieved by having a contented labour force on the one hand and on the other hand an investing public who would be attracted to the industry by a steady and progressive return on capital which the industry may be able to offer.
without committing ourselves to the acceptance of the above formula in its entirety we may point out that the labour appellate tribunal did not apply its own formula to the facts of the present case.
the labour appellate tribunal also overlooked the fact that but for the public companies limitation of dividend.
vide dhakeswari cotton mills ltd v commissioner of income tax west bengal 1954 indlaw sc 213.
