this appeal by special leave is from the judgment and order of the high court of andhra pradesh dated 15th april 1986.
on or about th of april 1948 sail nawaz jung the then ruler of mukkalla state south yeman in arabia settled some of the properties with which the appeal is concerned by a registered tamleeknama in favour of his son sultan awaz and his grandson galib bin awaz.
in 1954there was wakfnama by the said sail nawaz jung.
on or about 23rd of august1963.
the military estate officer secunderabad of.
andhra pradesh requested for the requisition of the property named as sail gulshan with a vast extent of land and palaces with roads and surrounded by a compound wail measuring 19 acres and 10 guntas situated in the heart of hyderabad city near sarojini devi hospital.
the property in question was taken possession of on or about 12th of september1963.
in this appeal we are concerned with the claim for compensation for the said acquisition by one abdul khader who was a flower picker.
he had claimed rights as a tenant during the requisition.
his claim for compensation for requisition was settled by sharing the rent in or about 1969 the appellant is one of the owners of the property in question deriving their title and right from the said sail nawaz jung.
on or about 3rd february1970 the collector issued notice for acquisition of the property u s 71 of the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act1952 being act 30 of 1952.
hereinafter called the central act the gazette notification for the acquisition was issued on 12th march1970 the controversy in this case relates to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant under the andhra pradesh telangana area.
tenancy and agricultural lands act1950 being.
act no xxi of 1950.
hereinafter called the andhra pradesh act.
the purpose of the said act as the preamble states was inter alia to enable the land holders to prevent the excessive sub division of agricultural holdings and empower government to assume in certain circumstances the management of agricultural lands to provide for the registration of co operative farms and to make further provision for matters incidental thereto.
s 2r states that the expression protected means a person who is deemed to be a protected tenant under the provisions of the said act.
chapter iv of the andhra pradesh act deals with protected tenants and s 34 of the said act provides who is to be considered as a protected tenant and uses the expression that a person shall subject to the provisions of sub ss 2 and 3be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of the land if he has fulfilled the conditions mentioned in clauses a and b of sub s 1 of s 34 of the said act.
sub s 2 of s 34 of the said act also deals with to be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of any landfor certain purposes.
s 35 of the said act deals with decision on claims and stipulates by sub s 1 of s 35 of the said act that if any question arises whether any person and if so what person is deemed under s 34 to be a protected tenant in respect of any land the landholder or any person claiming to be so deemed may within one year from the commencement of the act apply in the prescribed form to the tahsildar for the decision of the question and the tahsildar shall after enquiring into the claim or claims in the manner prescribed declare what person is entitled to be deemed to be protected tenant or as the case may be that no person is so entitled.
sub s 2 of s 35 stipulates that a declaration by the tahsildar that the person is deemed to be a protected tenant or in the event of an appeal from the tahsildar s decision such declaration by the collector on first appeal or by the board of revenue on second appeal shall be conclusive that such person is a protected tenant and his rights as such shall be recorded in the record of right of where there is no record of rights in such village record as may be prescribed.
s 36 of the said act deals with the recovery of possession by protected tenant.
s 40 of the said act makes rights of protected tenant heritable.
sub s 2 of s 40 of the said act indicates who are the heirs who would be entitled to hold the tenancy on the death of the protected tenant and on what terms.
the explanation to sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides who should be deemed to be the heirs of a protected tenant.
save as provided in this act.
no civil court shall have jurisdiction to settle decide or deal with any question which is by or under this act required to be settled decided or dealt with by the tahsildar tribunal or collector or by the board of revenue or government.
s 5 deals with rights over requisitioned property.
sd tahsildar.
on or about 19th of april1972.
not only that in the writ petition filed by the present petitioner in this court it was held that it is not necessary to go into the question whether the petitioner is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the property because they are the matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the act.
claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator claim petition was also filed by abdul khader claiming 60 of compensation as a protected tenant.
despite the objection exercising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question of protected tenant the arbitrator held that abdul khader was a protected tenant.
aggrieved by the aforesaid award the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the high court.
the appellant objected to that application but the high court on 1st april1985.
on or about 22nd of april1985.
the appeal is heard.
we agree with his submission.
the high court dealt with the value of the land.
we are not concerned with the challenge to this aspect in this appeal.
the judgment also dealt with the question as to who were the successors of nawaz jung.
the high court took into consideration the judgment in suit no 131 of 195 1 52 by the tenant.
in this background the court addressed itself to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant or not entitled to 60 of the compensation.
the high court was of the view that there was surfeit of evidence prior to the commencement of the andhra pradesh act that shaik hussain was a tenant of the land.
the court reiterated that there was surfeit of evidence to declare that abdul khader was a tenant.
