leave granted.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
the factual matrix of the matter which is not much in dispute is as under.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
respondent no 1 thereafter filed a suit in the delhi high court for grant of a decree of permanent injunction being suit no 2408 of 1985 alleging infringement of the said mark andor claiming right of passing off in respect thereof.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.
the plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of order 39 rule 4 of the code of civil procedure.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
one of the stipulations contained therein reads as under that the party of the second part has satisfied the party of the first part of having used the mark field marshal in respect of centrifugal pumps and valves since 1973.
indisputably first respondent filed an application under section 4656 and 107 of the act marked as c o no 9 of 1986contending that m s jain industries having not used the trade mark in respect of centrifugal pumps for a period more than five years and one month the mark should be taken off the register.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
indisputably appellant filed an application in form tm 24 on 17 6 1986 the assistant registrar trade marks passed an order on 10 11 1986 certifying that the trade mark field marshal brand word per se is registered under no 228867 in part a of the register as of the date 13th.
let the statement of learned counsel for the petitioner be recorded.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
trade mark no 228867 in.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
the second rectification application filed by the first respondent however was transferred to the intellectual property appellate board.
the division bench of the high court thereafter while disposing of both the writ petition and the letters patent appeal allowed the writ petition and set aside the order of the board and directed it to adjudicate the dispute on merits.
any order of the high court rectifying the register shall direct that notice of the rectification shall be served upon the registrar in the prescribed manner who shall upon receipt of such notice rectify the register accordingly.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
this appears to be the position at least till 30th may1986 in.
the meantime as a result of the ex parte ad interim injunction granted on 19th december 1985 by this court in suit no 2408 of 1985there was no question of thukral using the trademark field marshal till the injunction was vacated on 19th january1988.
the act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
it provides for civil or evil consequences.
it therefore can be taken away only when the conditions laid down therefor are satisfied.
it must not however be forgotten that s 461b provides for a special remedy.
it was furthermore opined there may be a case where owing to certain special circumstances a continuous use is not possible.
the court while construing a statute takes into consideration the parliamentary intent in amending the provisions thereof.
the board could not while exercising its jurisdiction under s 461bof the act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
as it takes away somebody s right it deserves strict construction.
jurisdiction of the board being dependent on determination of the foundational facts the same was required to be established on the basis of the averments made in the application and not otherwise.
rendered under the 1958 act it was held by the supreme court that the person seeking to have the trade mark removed from the register has only to prove.
counsel s fee assessed at rs 100000.
