i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
the respondent No i alone was convicted of the other two offences.
various sentences were passed against them by the additional sessions judge visakhapatnam who presided over the court.
the respondents preferred appeals before the high court challenging their convictions and sentences.
p c for the enhancement of the sentences passed on the respondents.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
the aeco was appointed managing agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
rajahmurthy were started apparently by raju himself and the aeco was appointed the managing agent of each of these concerns.
a mention may be made of the fact that in june 1952 the vesco undertaking was acquired by the government under the provisions of the electricity undertaking acquisition act but nothing turns on it.
the vesco had no managing director but at each meeting of its board of directors one of the directors used to be elected chairman.
the aeco on the other band always had a managing director first of whom was d l n raju.
he died in the year 1939 and was succeeded by r k n g raju an advocate of rajahmundry.
according to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of d l n raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
eventually many of those ventures failed.
according to the prosecution the second raju was not bestowing sufficient care and attention on the affairs of vesco.
the aeco as managing agents of vesco had appointed in the year 1939 one d v appala raju a trusted employee as its representative and as the secretary of vesco.
he was succeeded by t visweswara rao p w 6 an employee of the aeco.
ganeswara rao was also an old employee of aeco having been appointed a stenotypist in the year 1923 on an initial salary of rs p m eventually he became the head clerk therein.
he pressed his claim for appointment as secretary of vesco and representative of the managing agents at visakhapatnam and r h g raju appointed him to that post.
all this is not disputed.
it is the prosecution case that as secretary of vesco and the resident representative of the managing agents the respondent No i was attending to the day to day affairs of vesco which included the receiving of all sums of money due to vesco spending money for the purpose of vesco attending to the appointment supervision and control of the staff of vesco purchasing materials required for the purpose of vesco and supervising over the accounts of vesco.
he was thus all important with respect to the every day affairs of vesco.
his dual capacity enabled the respondent No i to earn the confidence not only of the directors of aeco but also of those of vesco.
the accounts maintained by the vesco used to be explained by him not only to the directors but also to the shareholders.
the knowledge of the financial position of vesco obtained by them used to be derived essentially from the respondent No 1.
as secretary of vesco it was his duty to convene the meetings of the board of directors to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of vesco to convene meetings of the general body to prepare the managing agents report and the director s report as also to see to the presentation of auditors report and the statement of accounts.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
there were no complaints about the management of the affairs of vesco or the aeco till the end of 1946 or the beginning of 1947.
one b rajan was elected auditor not only for vesco but for all the other four concerns including aeco.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i wanted to take advantage of this fact and conceived of a scheme for misappropriating as much money belonging to vesco as possible before the managing agency agreement of aeco came to an end in october 1948.
i secured the promotion of the approver k v ramana who was originally accounts clerk to the post of senior accountant.
later however murty was also got transferred to the general section and replaced by p w 18.
srinivasa rao originally a stores boy.
he was later promoted as senior accountant and in his place the respondent No 2.
laksbminarayana rao was appointed the cashier.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i took both the approver and lakshminarayana rao in his confidence as also some other persons known and unknown for carrying out his nefarious purpose namely the misappropriation of the funds of vesco during the subsistence of aeco s managing agency of vesco.
the term of the managing agency was renewed in 1943 and aeco con tinued to be managing agents until the vesco was taken over by the government in 1952.
i continued to be the secretary of vesco and resident representative of the managing agents throughout the period of conspiracy.
after the death of r k n g raju it was discovered that the aeco was indebted to many concerns which were under its managing agency the liability being shown either as that of aeco or that of r k n g raju personally.
again the vesco was shown as indebted to the andhra cement to the extent of rs 42 000.
this amount was however paid by the aeco from the funds of vesco.
eventually their choice fell on g v subba raju p w 25 a resident of manchili who held a large number of shares in the aeco and who was besides related to r k n g raju by marriage.
he was assured that by consenting to become the managing director be would not be required to discharge onerous duties and that the respondent No i would look to all the affairs of vesco.
he was also told that apart from signing important papers which may be sent to him by the respondent No i from time to time to manchili or wherever be might be would have no work to do.
he agreed and was elected managing director of aeco in the middle of 1948.
upon this understanding he accepted the position offered to him.
by cheques.
but domestic consumers usually paid their bills in cash to the bill collectors who used to hand over their collections to the respondent No 2.
on the basis of the entries in the handover book the final accounts were written up.
these amounts also used to be noted in the private note book and entered.
another thing which the respondent No i initiated was opening a heading in the ledger called advance purchase of materials.
amounts which had been misappropriated used to be posted therein though in fact no orders were placed for any material.
at that time it used to be represented to him that the amounts which were shown to be in the safe and not found therein had been sent to the bank for being deposited.
apparently subba raju was fully satisfied with this and other explanations and therefore he appointed one c section raju who was the manager of andhra cements to supervise over the affairs of vesco apparently because of this a new method of misappropriation was adopted by the respondents by starting in the vesco account books an account called suspense account.
a lakh of rupees passed through that account.
a new cash book was also said to have been prepared by the conspirators with the object of covering up the misappropriations which had been made.
besides that c section raju s management of andhra cements had landed it into a loss of rs 30 000.
because of all these things he had c section raju replaced towards the end of the year 1951 by one subbaramayya a retired finance officer from the madras electricity board both as a director of andhra cements and as a supervisor over the accounts of vesco.
he however was unable to obtain any information.
however the meeting was postponed and eventually held on december 9 1951.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
further scrutiny of the accounts was being carried out by krishna aiyar and in his subsequent report he pointed out that rs 2 38 000 which were shown as having been paid to the andhra power system had actually not been paid.
he was given time for doing so but he failed to pay it.
as a result of investigation they found that there was a total misappropriation of rs 3 40 000.
on may 13 1954 a chargesheet was filed against the two respondents as well as murti and the approver ramana.
he however directed ramana to make his confession before a submagistrate.
as already stated the additional sessions judge convicted both the respondents the respondent No i in respect of each head of the offences with which he was charged and the respondent No 2 in respect only of the offences of conspiracy and misappropriation.
according to it the provisions of section 239 were of no avail.
next according to the high court even if section 239 is applicable its provisions are subject to those of section 234 and as such the trial being for more than three offences was impermissible.
then according to the high court offences under.
further according to the high court where a conspiracy has yielded its fruits the conspirators can be charged with the actual offences committed and not with conspiracy to commit those offences.
charge of conspiracy according to the high court can be validly made only when the prosecution establishes that every conspirator expected to receive a personal benefit from it and that the prosecution has not been able to establish that the respondent No 2 or the approver evidently had any such expectations since they did not in fact receive any corresponding benefit.
the points which he urged are briefly these 1 that there was a misjoinder of charges and persons in that the various provisions of section 239 were clubbed together and an omnibus charge of conspiracy was framed which on its face was one likely to embarrass the respondents and make their task of defending themselves difficult.
3 irrelevant evidence was introduced and some evidence was introduced in a manner not authorised by the evidence act.
4 that the court abused its powers under s 342 cr.
if the evidence of the approver is left out the remaining evidence would be inadequate to sustain the prosecution case.
unless therefore the provisions of section 239 are applicable it would follow that there was a misjoinder of charges.
mr bhimasankaram supports the reason given by the high court for coming to the conclusion that there was a misjoinder of charges.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
a to g can be tried together in one case which certainly involves a bewildering multiplicity of charges and which would obviously set at naught the salutary principle contained in section 233.
the chapter is split up into two sub heads form of chargesand joinder of charges.
221 to 232 are comprised under the first sub head and sections 233 to 240 in the second.
221 to 223 deal with the framing and content of charge.
226 to 231 deal with the power of the court with regard to framing and altering charges and the procedure to be adopted at the trial where a charge is found to be defective or there is no charge or where a new charge is to be framed.
but it also provides that this will be subject to the exceptions contained in sections.
section 234.
1 deals with the trial of a person for offences of the same kind not exceeding three committed within the space of 12 months from the first to the last of such offences and section 231 2 what is meant by the expression offences of the same kind.
full effect can not possibly be given to this provision if we hold that it is subject to the limitation of s 2341.
sub s 2 of section 235 deals with a case where an offence falls within two definitions and sub s 3 deals with a case in which a number of acts are alleged against an accused person different com binations of which may constitute different offences.
then we come to section 236 which provides that if a single act or series of acts is of such a nature that it is doubtful which of several offences the facts which can be proved will constitute the accused may be charged with having committed all or any of such offences and further provides that any number of such charges may be tried together.
thus this is a special provision available in case of doubt and is neither subject to the limitations prescribed by section 233 nor those of the other preceding provisions.
here however we have a case where the prosecution alleges that there was additionally a conspiracy to which apart from the two respondents the approver and some other persons were parties and where in both the respondents were tried together.
a conspiracy must be regarded as one transaction and there fore a single individual charged with it could be tried with the aid of section 2351 for all the acts committed by him in furtherance or in pursuance of the conspiracy without the limitations imposed by s 2341.
for where all the acts are referable to the same conspiracy their connection with one another is obvious.
f there is a conjunction and.
grammatically therefore it would appear that the provisions of the various clauses are capable of being applied cumulatively.
does this mean that the provisions of section 233 234 235 and 236 must also be complied with.
again as already stated section 2341 does not override the provisions of section 2351 which permits trial of a person for more offences than one committed during any period provided they are so connected together as to form one transaction.
bhimasankaram contended that s 239 must be read at least subject to sections 2341 and 2351 on the ground.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
a c and d of section 239 as well as that occurring in section 2351 ought to be given the same meaning according to the normal rule of construction of statutes.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
for even in the absence of those words the earlier provisions could not have been ignored.
for it is a rule of construction that all the provisions of a statute are to be read together and given effect to and that it is therefore the duty of the court to construe a statute harmoniously.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
on a plain construction of the provisions of section 239 therefore it is open to the court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law the provisions of sections 233 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
a large number of decisions of the different high courts and one of the privy council have been considered in this case.
but while this principle is easy to appreciate and follow where one person alone is the accused and the interaction or intervention of the acts of more persons than one does not come in it would where the same act is committed by several persons be not only inconvenient but injudicious to try all the several persons separately.
a and b.
a says that persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction may be charged and tried together.
b says that persons accused of an offence and persons accused of abetment or of an attempt to commit such offence may also be charged and tried together.
a and c c provides that persons accused of more than one offence of the same kind within the meaning of section 234 committed by them jointly within the period of twelve months could also be charged and tried together.
each of them has committed two offences and each of them participated in the same offence.
the offences are of the same kind and must be deemed to have been committed in the course of the same transaction because of association and mutual connection.
c they could be tried together because the offences are of the same kind.
during the course of the attack one person from the second group was killed as a rest of blows with an axe inflicted by the aggressors a b and c two persons of the second group sustained grievous hurt as a result of lathi blows and one person sustained simple hurt.
a of section 239.
nor again could they be tried jointly only with the help of cl.
d yet the transaction in which the offences were committed is the same and there is a close association amongst the persons who have committed the different offences.
all these persons can be jointly tried for offences under section 147 by recourse to cl.
a so also a b and c could be jointly tried together for an offences under section 302.
d by itself all of them can be tried jointly for the different offences committed by each of them in the course of the same transaction and if cl.
a is unavailable they could not be tried for the offence under section 147 at the same trial.
this means that the trial for an offence under section 147 will have to be separated from the trial for the different offences committed by them.
the decision in singarachariar s case 1934 indlaw mad 352 c has really no bearing upon the point before us.
it is difficult to appreciate how this case assists the conclusion arrived at by the high court.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
there nine persons were jointly tried for an offence under section 5 1 c and d of the prevention of corruption act 1947 and section 109 i p c read with s 420 section 466 and section 467 i p c and all except one for offences under sections 420 467471 i p c some of them were also charged with separate offences under some of these provisions.
but on appeal by the state of andhra pradesh to this court this court held that there was no misjoinder of charges that the introduction of a large number of charges spread over a long period was a question of propriety and that it should be left to the judge or the magistrate trying the case to adopt the course which he thought to be appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case.
but then section 235 1 provides that if in any one series of acts so connected together as to form the same transaction more offences than one are committed by the same person he may be charged with and tried at one trial for every such offence.
no doubt the offence mentioned in charge No i is alleged to have been committed not by just one person but by all the accused and the question is whether all these persons can be jointly tried in respect of all these offences.
239 would apply.
but in the case before us no objection was taken to multiplicity or misjoinder of charges before the learned additional sessions judge and it was only in the high court that the point was raised.
for all these reasons we can not accept the argument of learned counsel on the ground of misjoinder of charges and multiplicity of charges.
bhimasankaram supporting the view taken by the high court then contends that it is not permissible to frame a charge of conspiracy when the matter has proceeded beyond the stage of conspiracy and that in pursuance of it offences have actually been committed.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
in swamirathnam s case 1 which is a decision of this court certain persons were tried for the offence of the conspiracy to cheat the members of the public and for specific offences of cheating in pursuance of that conspiracy.
negativing the contention.
a No iii of 1959 decided on january 19 1961.
here again the question of clubbing together of the various provisions of cls.
a to d of section 239 was not raised expressly in the argument before the court.
but the ultimate decision of the case would negative such argument.
again what was said by this court was that it is undesirable to complicate a trial by introducing a large number of charges spread over a long period but even so this was a question of propriety which should be left to the discretion of the judge or magistrate trying the case.
objection was taken very seriously by mr bhimasankaram to the charge of conspiracy framed in this case.
that charge reads thus adverting to the portion which we have bracketed his first objection was that the charge comprises within it not merely the conspiracy but also what was in fact done in pursuance of the conspiracy.
his next objection was that it brought within its purview all the various offences which were alleged to have been committed by the respondents.
the last objection was that the charge of conspiracy was added to the charge sheet very late.
section 120 b which makes criminal conspiracy punishable was added by the indian criminal law amendment act 1913 8 of 1913 along with section 120 a section 120 a defines conspiracy and section 120 b provides for the punishment for the offence of conspiracy.
criminal conspiracy as defined in section 120 a and consists of an agreement to do an illegal act or an agreement to do an act which is not illegal by illegal means.
section 120 b provides that whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards shall be punishable in the same manner as if he has abetted such offence unless there was an express provision in the code for the punishment of such conspiracy.
criminal conspiracy was however not an unknown thing before the amendment of the indian penal code in 1913.
but what the amendment did was to make that conspiracy itself punishable.
but it does not follow that where crimes have been committed the liability to punishment already incurred under section 120 b by having entered into a criminal conspiracy is thereby wiped away.
but that would be a matter ultimately within the discretion of the court before which the trial takes place.
as we are remanding the appeal to the high court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the evidence of the approver.
even assuming for a moment that this charge is cumbersome in the absence of any objection by the respondents at the proper time and in the absence of any material from which we could infer prejudice they are precluded by the provisions of section 225 from complaining about it at any rate after their conviction by the trial court.
coming to the next point of mr bhimsankaram regarding the abuse of powers under section 342 his first contention was that long and involved questions were put to the respondents.
finally he said that the court did not perform its duty under section 342 4 of the code as amended as it failed to bring to the notice of the respondents that they may if they chose give evidence in their defence.
that is to say they have given their explantion regarding the circumstances appearing in the evidence set out in the questions and wherever that was not feasible they have said that they would do so in their written statements.
a pointed reference was made to question.
we are also satisfied that there is no substance in the complaint that the questioning bordered on cross examination.
they also show payment case was that the payments which were entered in the account of vesco do not find a place in the account books of the corresponding firms or authorities because they were never made by vesco.
fact misappropriated by the respondents in the circumstance that there are no corresponding entries in the account books of those firms.
cal 231 247.
absence of entries in their account books would be inconsistent with the receipt of the accounts and would thus be a relevant fact which can be proved under section 11.
for the purpose of showing that no amounts were received by the firms their account books would thus be as relevant as the vesco account books for the purpose of showing the contrary.
it may further be mentioned that the account books of vesco show certain payments made to billimoria co of kharagpur.
further 64 documents were missing from the records when they came to the high court and that this has caused serious prejudice to the respondent.
according to mr bhimasankaram the pardon tendered to the approver was illegal and if the pardon is illegal his evidence is wholly inadmissible.
for all these reasons the evidence of the approver must be left out of account.
his contention is that where none of the offences is exclusively triable by the high court or the court of sessions pardon could be granted only if the offences are punishable with imprisonment which could extend to ten years but not if a higher punishment were provided for them.
here one of the offences alleged against the respondents is criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 i p c it is not exclusively triable by a court of sessions and the punishment as set out in the 7th column of schedule ii cr.
he contends that since the offence is punishable with transportation for life section 337 1 could not be availed of for granting pardon to the approver.
the gravity is of course to be determined with reference to the sentence awardable with respect to that offence.
on the strength of these considerations mr chari for the state contends that if the words any offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 10 years were interpreted to mean offences which were punishable with imprinsonment of less than 10 years grave offences which are not exclusively triable by a court of sessions will be completely out of section 337 1.
he suggests that this provision can also be reasonably interpreted to mean that where the offences are punishable with imprisonment exceeding 10 years pardon may be granted to the approver.
for the pardon granted in this case can be regarded as being within the ambit of section 337 1 for another reason.
as regards the offence under section 477 a it is one of those sections which are specifically enumerated in section 337 1 and the argument advanced before us and which we have rejected would not even be available with regard to the pardon in respect of that offence.
coming to the next ground of attack on the validity of pardon the argument of mr bhimasankaram is that whereas section 337 1 speaks of pardon being granted by a district magistrate or presidency magistrate a sub divisional magistrate or any magistrate of first class except in cases where an enquiry or trial was pending before another magis tratc the pardon here was granted by the additional district magistrate in a case where an enquiry was pending before the district magistrate and is therefore illegal and of no avail.
he contends that section 337 1 speaks of the district magistrate which expression does not include an additional district magistrate.
a case under enquiry or trial before another magistrate does not fall in any of these classes.
by government order No 3106 dated september 9 1949 the government of the province of madras issued certain instructions to the magistrates in pursuance of the separation of the judiciary from the executive.
consequent on the separation.
he became only an additional district magistrate.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
as distinguished from the power under the proviso to section 337 1 can be conferred upon an additional district magistrate.
but entry 7 a in part v of sch.
mr chari then referred to section 133 of the evidence act and pointed out that this section clearly makes an accomplice evidence admissible in a case and that an approver whose pardon is found to be invalid does not cease to be an accomplice and contends that he is therefore as competent a witness as he would have been if he had not been granted pardon at all and not been put on trial.
but it should remove from its mind the misconception that the additional sessions judge has not believed him.
