prevention act1987 hereinafter referred to as tada by the learned designated judge pune.
out of the said twelve accused6 accused were acquitted of all the charges while the five appellants herein namely bonkya alias bharat shivaji mane a 5mandu baliba dombe a 8ashok baloba dombe a 9ranjar bhausaheb dombe a 10 and kaka alias pandurang baloba dombe a 11 were convicted for offences under section 302307149 ipc and section 3 of tada and sentenced to suffer life imprisonment and to pay a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 302149 ipc.
10 years ri and a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 307149 ipc 2 years ri for the offence under section 324149 ipc and life imprisonment and fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 3 of tada in default of payment of fine on each of the counts the appellants were to undergo further ri for two years each.
one accused died during the pendency of the trial.
through this appeal under section 19 of tada the appellants have called in question their conviction and sentence.
according to the prosecution case on 11th august1990 at about 3 00 p m anna shety band patte mukesh ramesh and prakash band patte had gone to the vrindavan video parlour for watching a movie.
the accused a 6a 10 and a 11 alongwith one other person were also present at the video parlour.
there was an altercation between the accused and the complainant party when the leg of kaka dombe a 11 dashed against the leg of anna shety band patte.
the complainant party went towards jagdamba hotel owned by waman band patte pw at that time baban karpe bajrang band patte sanjay mane ramesh pawar were also present near the hotel.
at about 4 00 p m the appellants and other accused persons allegedly armed with swords satturs and sticks arrived there in two auto rickshaws and one jeep.
appellants a 5a 10 and a 11 thereafter assaulted bajrang band patte pw 14 on his head in front of the hotel.
bajrang pw 14 was taken to the hospital by waman pw 15ramesh pw 11 and prakash pw 2whereas popat deceased who was seriously injured and had fallen down unconscious after receipt of the injuries was removed to the hospital by the police when it arrived at the spot a little later.
all the injured persons were admitted to the hospital.
on the basis of the said report an fir for offences under section 302307149147148 ipc was registered vide cr no 101 of 1990 at about 6 00 p m the inquest on the dead body of popat was conducted and the body was sent for post mortem examination.
bajrang pw 14 regained consciousness during the night intervening 11th and 12th august1990 and made a statement to the police in respect of the incident which took place in front of jagdamba hotel and on the basis of that statement cr no 10290 was registered.
an auto rickshaw bearing registration no mwq 5624 belonging to manik bhende gavali was found abandoned in a damaged condition with broken glasses.
it was also taken into possession vide a panchnama.
on a disclosure statement made by a 11 before the police and the panches under section 27 of the evidence act and on his pointing out a sword was recovered from the field at korti where it lay buried.
a 10 also made a disclosure statement under section 27 of the evidence act to the effect that he had buried a sword behind yamai tukai temple and could get it recovered.
during the investigation an identification parade was got conducted through the executive magistrate pw 32 when baban karpe pw 9 and other prosecution witnesses identified the assailants.
after completion of the investigation two charge sheets arising out of crime no 10190 and crime no 10290 were filed before the designated court.
p 35requested the court for holding trial in respect of both the chargesheets together which application was allowed by the designated court vide order dated 5 december 1992 and that is how both the cases were tried together by virtue of the provisions of section 220 1 cr.
p c as the series of acts in both the cases were so inter connected as to form one transaction.
at the trial the prosecution alleged that the accused party with an intent to commit terror in the wadar community had committed the murder of popat and injured pw 9 and pw 14by using lethal weapons and had thereby committed terror in the wadar community and thus committed an offence under section 3 of tada besides the other offences as already noticed.
baloba a 1 died during the pendency of the trial and therefore the proceedings against him abated.
according to a 2a 3a 5a 6 and a 7 they had been identified by pw 9during the identification parade at the instance of the police.
a 4 alleged false implication at the instance of pw 15 waman while a 8 alleged false implication at the hands of the police with a view to pressurise him to withdraw a complaint concerning the murder of his brother and 5 others allegedly committed by the police.
a 9 also put forward a similar defence while a 10 alleged that the police had instituted a false case against him at the instance of narayan dhotare according to a 11also the witnesses had deposed falsely against him at the instance of narayan dhotare.
according to pw 22the internal injuries on the deceased were a result of the following external injuries 1 incised wound transverse on left groin at centre medial to left public symphysis and left superior iliac crest all muscles vessels cut both femoral vessels vein artery cut dimension 4 x 2 x 5 cms.
cms above right ear fracture of right parietal bone with laceration of brain.
3 verticle incised wound 5 x 1 x 1 cms.
bone deep at centre of vertex fracture of skull with laceration of brain.
2 abraded contusion below right knee and front of right leg5 x 5 cm.
bone deep.
2 multiple abraded contusion all over the back.
the trial court for the purposes of consideration of the evidence divided the prosecution case into three parts namely i the incident at vrindavan video parlour ii incident near jagdamba hotel and iii the incident at the math.
an identification parade had been held by shri shrikant chimanaji jahagirdar pw 32executive magistrate.
at the identification parade a 5 was identified by pw 9pw10pw 11pw 14 and pw 15 a 10 by pws 10 to 15 a 11 by pw 3 and pws 9 to 15 a 1 by pws 10 to 15 a 8 and a 9 by pw 3 and by pws 10 to 15.
baban karpe pw 9himself an injured witness failed to identify a 10 at the time of the identification parade held by pw 32though he identified a 10 later on in the court during the trial.
besides the testimony of these prosecution witnesses has received ample corroboration from the medical evidence as well as the recoveries of the weapons of offence.
the designated court after considering the evidence of the first incident and the manner of assault on the deceased and pw 9 and pw 14came to the conclusion that the appellants alongwith some others had intended to create terror in a section of the people wadar community and with that intention had assaulted pw 14the deceased and pw9 by lethal weapons and were therefore guilty of committing an offence under section 3 tada.
by no stretch of imagination.
can it be said that the accused had the intention to strike terror much less in a particular section of the society when they entered into an altercation at the video parlour or even when they went after the complainant party and opened an assault on then opposite jagdamba hotel or at the math.
prosecution has led no evidence nor brought any circumstances on the record from which any inference may be drawn that the appellants intended to strike terror amongst the wadar community.
and others 1994 4 scc602.
1994 indlaw sc 1706 this court opined that the criminal activity in order to invoke tada must be committed with the requisite intention as contemplated by section 31 of the act by use of such weapons as have been enumerated therein and which cause or are likely to result in the commission of offences as mentioned in that section.
appellants no 1 a 52 a 83 a 9 and.
before we part with the judgment we would also like to deal with a submission made on behalf of the appellants by their learned counsel that since the offence under section 3 of tada is not made out the criminal appeal filed in this court may be transferred to the high court for its disposal in exercise of our jurisdiction under article 142 of the constitution of india for the reason that a first appeal against conviction and sentence recorded for various offences under the indian penal code by the sessions court lies to the high court.
learned counsel submitted that the appellants should not be denied the opportunity to get the first hearing in the high court because in the event of their failure in the high court they still have a chance to approach this court under article 136 of the constitution of india.
the argument is fallacious and runs in the teeth of the express provisions of section 19 of tada.
section 19 1 and 2 of tada read as follows.
19 appeal 1 notwithstanding anything contained in the code an appeal shall lie as a matter of right from any judgment sentence or order not being an interlocutory order of a designated court to the supreme court both on facts and on law.
2 except as aforesaid no appeal or revision shall lie to any court from any judgment sentence or order including an interlocutory order of a designated court.
a bare perusal of the above section shows that an appeal against the judgment sentence or order of the designated court except an interlocutory order shall lie on facts and on law to the supreme court and that no appeal or revision shall lie to any other court.
under section 12 of tada the designated court has the jurisdiction not only to try the cases under tada but also to try offences under the indian penal code if the offence under tada is connected with such other offences.
