Appeal by special leave from the Award dated September 20 1963 of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in Reference CG IT 25 of 1962.
C B Agarwala J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and Ravinder Narain for the respondents.
From the facts appearing on the record it appears that the Trustees first introduced a two shift system of work in the Alexandra Docks on June 30 1953 and the same system was extended to the Prince s and Victoria Docks on December 15 1953.
As the lock gates control the depth of water in the Alexandra Docks fixed hours of rest could be maintained from day to day except in the monsoon months when the storm gates had some time to be closed.
During these months recess time at the Alexandra Docks was also variable and was made to coincide with the closure of the storm gates.
At these docks 8 hours  duty 2 hours  rest at variable times and 2 hours  overtime were prescribed.
1 In regard to any scheduled employment minimum rates of wages in respect of which have been fixed under this Act the appropriate Government may a fix the number of hours of work which shall constitute a normal working day inclusive of one or more specified intervals b provide for a day of rest in every period Of seven days which shall be allowed to all employees or to any specified class of em ployees and for the payment of remuneration in respect of such days of rest c provide for payment of work on a day of rest at a rate not less than the overtime rate.
1 Where an employee whose minimum rate of wages is fixed under this Act by the hour by the day or by such a longer wage period as may be prescribed works on any day in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate fixed under this Act or under any law of the appropriate Government for the time being in force whichever is higher.
 Rule 24.
Number of hours of work which shall constitute a normal working day 1 The number of hours which shall constitute a normal working day shall be a in the case of an adult 9 hours b in the case of a child 41 hours.
3 Nothing in this rule shall be deemed to affect the provisions of the  The controversy in the present case is a narrow one.
By interval under section 13 is obviously meant interval of rest and this is clear from Rule 242.
As the heading of the Rule shows these are the hours of work.
A working day may extend to 12 hours but the number of hours of work cannot exceed 9.
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work which cannot exceed 9 is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
From section 13 read with Rule 24 we know that the number of hours constituting a normal working day is 9.
Average duration of actual work payable at ordinary rate of wages per day thus comes to 8 hours.
He may go up to 9 hours on any day without paying any overtime provided he does not exceed 48 hours in the week.
He can specify the intervals of rest and spread the 8 hours or 9 hours as the case may be together with intervals of rest over 12 hours in a twelvehour shift.
If he takes work during the extra 4 hours or fails to specify the hours of rest he must pay overtime.
For the hours of rest he is not required to pay overtime but he must specify those hours.
As in the present case the total number of hours of work in a week is 48 8 hours per day for 6 days overtime is payable for that hour or part of an hour beyond the 8 hours in which the workman is either made to work or the interval is not specified.
54Daily hours Subject to the provisions of section 51 no adult worker shall be required or allowed to work in a factory for more than nine hours in any day Provided   55.
2    56.
According to their resolution the recess is fixed as near the middle of the work as possible depending on the tides.
