N Criminal Appeal No 425 1974.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated the 22nd July 1974 of the Madras High Court at Madras in Criminal Appeal No 24 of 1974 and Referred Trial No 3 of 1974.
A N Mulla K Jayaram and P Chandrasekhar for the Appellant  A V Rangam and Miss A Subhasini for the Respondent.
709 The police had submitted charge sheet under section 30234 IPC against the present accused and accused Jabamani Nadar alias Kanyakumari Comrade alias Ramu and Thamizharasan alias Ramaswami who was shown as an absconder.
His appeal was also dismissed.
Hence this appeal by special leave.
The facts are in a brief compass.
Pandurangam woke up at about 1115 PM.
He got up and saw the accused Karunakaran running on the eastern bank of the channel with a knife 8 inches long.
He further saw his two brothers Gnanasakaran PW 1 and Thiru gnanasambandam PW 3 along with Ramasamy PW 2 chasing them.
He ran to his elder brother who came from the side of the bench where he was sleeping and who fell down on the southern side of the sluice.
A crowd gathered and Pandurangam was asked to lodge information at the police station which he did.
It is clear that whosoever had inflicted these injuries definitely had  the intention to cause the death of the victim.
In the first information report which PW 4 lodged at the Thana which is very close to the place of occurrence within about 15 minutes of the occurrence inter alia stated thus 4 L159SCI76 710 At about 1115.
I stood up and saw Karunakaran son of Orathur Ayyathurai Padayachi running eastwards from the place where I lay and my elder brother chasing him from behind.
I too came running.
Even so later on four eye witnesses were produced implicating not only the present accused but also two other accused.
It was also observed that the High Court can place no reliance on the testimony of PW 4 in so far as he implicated the second accused and Tharnizharasan in the case of murder of Viswanatham.
Even so the High Court thought that it was justified in convicting the present accused on the sole testimony of PW 4 corroborated by the contents of exhibit P1 FIR.
If the witness is absolutely reliable there can be no infirmity in convicting the accused.
In that  case even corroboration may not be sought for.
It is however not possible to adopt that course in this case where the testimony of the sole witness has been rejected with reference to the 1 second accused who was on the same boat with the appellant.
He is definitely an obliging witness and cannot at all be trustworthy.
It failed to notice certain broad facts which should definitely weigh with the court while appreciating ocular testimony.
But the fact that the witness has stated in the first information report that the deceased was only mentioning the name of accused Karunakaran as his assailant this earlier version appears to be contradicted by the medical evidence.
Besides he has deliberately changed his own stand in court when he deposed that he saw two other persons running ahead of Karunakaran being chased by his two brothers and Ramaswamy.
Another very serious departure from his earlier version is that while PW 4 had stated in the first information report that my elder brother meaning the deceased was chasing him from behind in court he has completely given a go by to this statement and stated that Karunakaran was being chased by PWs 1 2 and 3.
If his statement in court that he saw PWs 1 2 and 3 chasing Karunakaran while running away after the assault is true it is difficult to appreciate that he would not mention about this fact in the first information report.
He admitted in the course of cross examination that the Sub Inspector asked him whether he had any witnesses and that he did not tell about them due to excitement.
It is difficult to accept this explanation of this witness.
Assuming that his earlier version in the first information report is true that the deceased chased the accused .
It is also conceivable that those persons who arrived at the place of occurrence a little earlier than PW 4 did not see the assailants who might have already escaped.
It also stands to reason that those persons who gathered would not ask PW 4 who arrived at the place a little later for information with regard to the assailants.
On the other hand we have .
For the reasons given above we are unable to place such reliance as is requisite on the testimony of this uncorroborated solitary witness for convicting the accused facing a murder charge.
SR Appeal allowed.
