became indisputably entitled to a share in the joint family properties but following the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Shiramabai Bhimgonda vs Kalgonda1 the learned trial judge limited that share to 124th refusing to add 14th and 124th together.
Another Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji2 had already reconsidered and dissented from earlier Division Bench judgment in Shiramabai Bhimgonda1 In these two cases the judgment of the Bench was delivered by the same learned Judge Patel J.
Court that the suit properties belonged to the joint family and that there was no prior partition is well founded and is not seriously disputed the decision of this appeal rests on the interpretation of Explanation 1 to section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act 30 of 1956.
LR351.
2 765 shall devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with this Act  Provided that if the deceased had left him surviving a female relative specified in class I of the Schedule or a male relative specified in that class who claims through such a female relative the interest of the deceased in the Mitakshara coparcenary property shall devolve by testamentary or intestate succession as the case may be under this Act and not by survivorship.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
By the application of the normal rule prescribed by that section Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would therefore devolve according to the proviso by intestate succession under the Act and not by survivorshop.
The proviso to section 6 contains the formula for fixing the share of the claimant while Explanation 1 contains a formula for deducing the share of the deceased.
see Mulla s Hindu Law Fourteenth Edition page 403 para 315.
1 SCR 394 2 768 incidents which if the putative state of affairs had in fact existed must inevitably have flowed from or accompanied it and if the statute says that you must imagine a certain state of affairs it cannot be interpreted to mean that having done so you must cause or permit your imagination to boggle when it comes to the inevitable corollaries of that state of affairs.
1937 speaking broadly conferred upon the Hindu widow the right to a share in the joint family property as also a right to demand partition like any male member of the family.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
2 AIR 1974 Guj.
3 AIR 1967 Orissa 194.
