Civil Appeal No 1377 of 1982.
From the Judgment and Order dated 17111980 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Appeal No 251 of 1977.
FR Nariman EK Jose PH Parekh and Miss Sunita Sharma for the Appellant.
Clause 2 of the said agreement recites that the licensee had agreed to use the premises as above and merely for the purpose of workshop business.
Before the Judge Court of Small Causes the points of defences were filed in which the appellant had stated that the application was not maintainable and the plaintiff was himself occupying the premises under one Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain who himself had adopted ejectment proceedings against the respondent.
He recorded further that he thought that BC meant by consent .
In order to go back to the findings of the learned Judge of the Court of Small Cause and the learned High Court Judge found that the appellant had failed to prove that he was a sub tenant of the respondent and the learned Judge found him to be a licensee.
In July 1967 the appellants 1064 filed an application for eviction under section 41 of the .
If he was such a licensee the non obstante clause of section 15A1 give him the status and protection of a tenant in spite of there being anything to the contrary in any other law or in contract.
He referred us to the decision of this Court in the case of Associated 1066 Hotels of India Ltd vs RN Kapoor  where at page 383 this Court noted that there was a marked distinction between a lease and a licence.
A lease involves a transfer of an interest in land Subba Rao J as the learned Chief Justice then was observed in that case.
 Denning LJ also reiterated the same decision.
For this purpose reference may be made to the language used and the restrictions put upon the use of the premises in question by the appellant.
It permitted user only for 20 hours.
Clause 12 is significant which gave to the licensor the right to enter upon the premises and inspect the same at any time.
In our opinion the background of the facts of this case and the background of the entire document negate the contention of the appellant that it was a lease and not a licence.
But in this case we had not been tempted.
In determining whether an agreement creates between the parties the relationship of landlord and tenant or merely that of licensor and licensee the decisive consideration is the intention of the parties.
In any event this is a possible view that could be taken.
