Civil Appeal No 3909 of 1986.
From the Judgment and order dated 2991986 of the Allahabad High Court in CR No 83 of 1986.
High Court after discussing various decisions came to the conclusion that in view of the language of Section 2 sub clause 2 Explanation 1 it could not be doubted that period of 10 years will commence from 160 the date of assessment ie October 1 1976 that it is in that view of the matter that the learned Judge of the High Court decreed the suit and hence the present appeal.
If it could be passed on anyone of the grounds mentioned in Section 20 clause 2 of this Act in support of this contention the learned counsel placed reliance on decisions in Om Prakash Gupta etc.
 11982 3 SCR 491 and Vineet Kumar vs Mangal Sain Wadhera  On the other hand learned counsel for the respondent contended that the rights of parties will be governed on the basis of the date on which the suit was filed and it was contended that if on the date on which the suit was filed by the respondent the provisions of this Act were not applicable then merely because the proceedings have been pending for all these years it could not be contended that as now 10 years elapsed the decree could not be passed.
2 Explanation I of this Act that if there is an assessment made then the date of completion of the building the date from which 10 years are to be computed will be the date on which the first assessment was made.
It is true that the decision reported in Firms Amar Nath Basheshar Dass s case supra is a decision on the Punjab Act where the question before this Court was about the language of the notification which was issued under the Act exempting the buildings from operation of the Act for a period of S years and it is true that the language of the notification was not identical with the language of Sec.
But apart from it the contention advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant was that because of the language of Section 39 and 40 even if the matter is pending in this Court and 10 years have elapsed appellant will be entitled to the benefit of the provisions of this Act because according to him the appeal will be a continuation of the suit and therefore the advantage will be available.
Admittedly this suit was not pending on the date on which this Act came into force.
An attempt was made to contend that so far as the present property is concerned the Act will be deemed to have come into force on the expiry of 10 years ie 11086 but this contention could not be accepted as it is very clear from the language of this Act that it applied I only to a suit pending on the date of the commencement of this Act and this is the view taken in the Om Prakash Gupta s case wherein it was observed Further in order to attract section 39 the suit must be pending on the date of commencement of the Act which is 15th of July 1972 but the suit giving rise to the present appeal was filed on 23rd of March 1974 long after the commencement of the Act.
It is clear that provisions of Section 40 will come to the rescue of the appellant tenant only if the suit from which revision or appeal arose was pending on the date of commencement of this Act ie 1571972 and therefore it could not be contended that the present revision petition or the appeal either to the High Court or the appellate authority arose out of suit which was pending on the date on which this Act came into force.
In this view of the matter therefore in our opinion even this contention of learned counsel for the appellant could not be accepted.
It is well settled that the rights of the parties will be determined on the basis of the rights available to them on the date of the suit but in Vineet Kumar s case supra this Court took the view that if during the pendency of the proceedings 10 years have elapsed the tenant is entitled to the protection under the Act and in coming to this conclusion the Court also considered the language of Section 39 of the Act and it observed The appellant in the present case only seeks the protection of the new Rent Act which became applicable to the premises in question during the pendency cf the litigation.
Subsection 4 of section 20 stipulated that in any suit for eviction on the grounds mentioned in Cl.
2 viz the arrears of rent if at the first hearing of the suit the tenant in default pays all arrears of rent to the landlord or deposits in court the entire amount of rent and damages for the use and occupation of the building due from him such damages for use and occupation being calculated at the same rate as rent together with interest thereon at the rate of nine per cent per annum and the landlord s cost of the suit in respect thereof after deducting therefrom any amount already deposited by the tenant under sub section 1 of section 30 the court may in lieu of passing a decree for eviction on that ground pass an order relieving the tenant against his liability for eviction on that ground.
Bar of suit for eviction of tenant except on specified grounds 1 Save as provided in sub section 2 no suit shall be instituted for the eviction of a tenant from a building notwithstanding the determination of his tenancy by efflux of time or on the expiration of a notice to quit or in any other manner Provided that nothing in this sub section shall bar a suit for the eviction of a tenant on the determination of his tenancy by efflux of time where the tenancy for a fixed term was entered into by or in pursuance of a compromise or adjustment arrived at with reference to a suit appeal revision or execution proceedings which is either recorded in court or otherwise reduced to writing and signed by the tenant.
In this view of the matter therefore the appeal is without any substance and is dismissed.
It is true that we maintained the decree for eviction passed by the High Court but in view of the fact that as the appellant has been carrying out the business in the premises for a long time for it would be proper to permit the appellant time to make their arrangements for shifting.
In default the respondent shall be entitled to execute the decree forthwith.
In the circumstances of the case parties are directed to bear their own costs.
SL Appeal dismissed.
