N Criminal Appeal No 8 of 1951.
Appeal from an Order of the High Court of Bombay Bavdekar and Chainani JJ dated 20th February 1950 in Criminal Appeal No 106 of 1950 arising out of an order dated 9th January 1950 of the Presidency Magistrate 19th Court Esplanade Bombay in Case No 10879P of 1949.
Iswarlal C Dalai and RB Dalai for the appellant.
CK Daphtary Solicitor General for India G N Joshi with him for the Republic of India respondent No 1Jindra Lal for the respondent No 2 1952.
February 1.
The Judgment of the Court was deliv ered by CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
The appellant WH King who is carrying on a business in Bombay under the name and style of Associated Commercial Enterprises was the tenant of a flat on the second floor of a building called Ganga Vihar Marine Drive Bombay which belongs to a lady named Durgeshwari Devi.
It is said that the appellant wanted to go to the United Kingdom for treatment of his failing eye sight and he got into touch with the complainant Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia who is the second respondent in this appeal through one Sayed for the purpose of making necessary ar rangements about the flat occupied by him in view of his intended departure.
The complainant actually paid the accused two sums of 420 Rs 500 each on 7th November 1948 and 17th November 1948.
He however got into touch with the police on 1 12 1948 and in conjunction with the latter a trap was laid for the appellant.
It was arranged that the complainant should bring with him Rs 1000 being the balance due in respect of the furniture and that the police would give him Rs 29500 to be paid to the appellant.
The complainant and a Sub Inspec tor posing as the complainant s brother went to the appel lant on 4 12 1948 and paid him the two sums of money and the keys of the flat and the motor garage were handed over to the complainant.
As the appellant and his wife were leaving the flat the man who masqueraded as the complain ant s brother threw off his disguise and disclosed his identity.
From the complainant were recovered the bunch of keys and the documents that were handed over to him by the appellant namely the letter handing vacant possession Exhibit D.
The appellant was charged under section 181 of the Bombay Rents Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act LVII of 1947 for receiving a pugree of Rs 29500 and he was further charged under section 192 of the said Act for receiving the said sum as a condition for the relin quishment of his tenancy.
His wife who was the second accused in the case was charged with aiding and abetting her husband in the commission of the two offences.
421 The defence of the appellant was that he was in search of a partner to carry on his business during his intended absence who was also to act as caretaker of his flat anal that it was in this connection and with this object in view that he entered into negotiations with the complain ant.
The Presidency Magistrate who tried the case disbe lieved the defence on the facts holding that what was received by the accused was by way of pugree.
As section 18 1 of the Act was not applicable he convicted him under section 192 of the Act and sentenced him in view of his old age and blindness to one day s simple imprisonment and a fine of Rs 30000.
He asked for a certificate under article 1341c of the Constitution but this was rejected on 10 4 1950.
 It was urged that the offence arises only on receipt of any sum or any consideration as a condition of the relin quishment by a tenant of his tenancy and that in the present case there was no such relinquishment.
Exhibit D which is the most material document under which the appellant handed over vacant possession of the flat to the complainant constitutes or evidences an assignment of the tenancy and not a relinquishment.
It says  I WH King hereby hand over vacant possession of my flat No 3 situated on 2nd floor and garage No 4 on the ground floor of Ganga Vihar Building on Plot No 55 situated on Marine Drive Road to Mr Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia from this day onward and that I have no claim whatsoever over this flat and Mr Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia will pay the rent directly to the landlord.
Any sublet ting assignment or transfer in any other manner of his interest by the tenant is made unlawful under 423 section 15.
Section 18 deals with the grant renewal or continuance of a lease of any premises or the giving of his consent by the landlord to the transfer of a lease by sub lease or otherwise and it provides that the landlord who receives any fine premium or other like sum or deposit or any consideration for the grant renewal or continuance or the accord of consent oh would be guilty of an offence and liable to the punishment therein specified.
It is the landlord s consent to the transfer of a lease by sub lease or otherwise on receipt of consideration that has been made an offence.
If by the expression an assignment such as we have in the present case was meant appropriate words could have been used such as the transfer by a tenant of his interest which we find in section 108 sub clause i of the Trans fer of Property Act.
In the case of an assignment the assignor contin ues to be liable to the landlord for the performance of his obligations under the tenancy and this liability is contrac tual while the assignee becomes liable by reason of privity of estate.
But in the case of relinquishment it cannot be a unilateral transaction it can only be in favour of the lessor by mutual agreement between them.
In fact a surrender or relinquishment terminates the lessee s rights and lets in the lessor.
It is no doubt true that the word relinquishment does not occur in the Transfer of Property Act but it is found in many of the Tenancy Acts in various provinces where there are Sec tions which deal with the 55 424 relinquishment of their holdings by tenants in favour of the landlord by notice given to him in writing.
As the statute creates an offence and imposes a penalty of fine and imprisonment the words of the section must be strictly construed in favour of the subject.
As in our view there has been no relinquishment within the meaning of section 19 sub clause 1 the conviction under sub clause 2 cannot be sustained.
Agent for respondent No 1 PA Mehta.
Agent for respondent No 2 Ganpat Rai.
