March 24 1964.
In July.
1947 the Private Limited Company was converted into a Public Limited Company.
The general practice of the Company both at the Head Office and the Branch Offices appears to have been to retire its employees at the age of 55 though in certain cases the Company in its discretion permitted an employee to continue beyond that age.
In September 1959 an agreement was entered into between the Company and its employees at Calcutta under which the age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
Before the Tribunal the Company resisted the workmen s claim but submitted that it was agreeable to introduce for its Bombay employees provisions similar to those which had been introduced by agreement for the Calcutta employees retirement at the age of 58 subject to the employee passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
It is against this decision that the present appeal has been filed by the workmen.
According to this the pensionable age is 70 in two countries 67 in another two 65 in twenty four 60 in seventeen 55 in two and 50 in one.
As the Pay Commission Report pointed out This is particularly remarkable considering that the countries differ widely in demographic constitution levels of economic development and climatic and social condition and it indicates a virtual unanimity of competent opinion that balancing the various factors physiological economic and social that are relevant the normal working life should continue up to the age of 60 and may well go on up to 65 years.
If in any particular region employees have been successful in their claim for fixing the age of retirement at 60 this very success is bound to raise in others in the region similar expectations.
In support of their demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 the workmen tried to show that in recent years at least the tendency in comparable concerns in Bombay region has been to fix the retirement age at 60.
In several of these this age had been fixed as far back as 1950 while in the rest the age was fixed in later years that is between 1952 and 1961.
In an earlier decision of this Court in Dunzlop Rubber Co Ltd vs Workmen2 it had been urged that the employer was an All India concern and that changing the terms and conditions of service in regard to the age of retirement in one place might unsettle the uniformity and might have serious repercussions in other branches.
It was mainly in view of this finding of the Tribunal that this Court refused to disturb the award fixing the age of retirement at 60 years.
