Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated September 2 1959 of the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
According to the appellants the said lands had been granted in Inam to the ancestor of one Ambalathadum Pachai Kandai Udayavar by the Carnatic Rulers before the advent of the British power in India.
Notice of this application was served on the appellants and they pleaded their own title to the properties.
Before this order could be executed and possession delivered to respondents 1 to 3 the appellants instituted the present suit.
In consequence the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
It held that the evidence adduced by the respondents did not prove the existence of any temple in favour of which the original grant had been alleged to have been made according to them.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants  claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession the lower appellate Court found that it was evident that from the very beginning Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
In other words he negatived the appellants  claim that the original grant was in favour of their predecessors intitle though burdened with an obligation to render service to the matam.
Having thus held that the properties belonged to the Temple the learned Judge proceeded to consider the question of limitation by reference to the several alienations with which the present litigation is concerned.
In consequence the appeal preferred by respondents 2  3 was partly allowed and the decree passed by the lower appellate court in regard to Exts.
A 3 A 6 and A 12 show that the alienors purported to transfer the properties not as Poojaris or managers of a temple but in their individual character as owners of the said properties.
125 Mr Tatachari also argues that in applying article 144 we must assume that the possession of the alienees was adverse to the temple from the respective dates of the alienations when they were put in possession of the properties covered by the transactions in question.
 He also added that transfer would similarly be void and limitation would run from the date of the transfer if the manager transfers the property as his own prop and not as the property of the deity.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
Article 134 covers suits brought with a view to recover possession of immovable property conveyed or bequeathed in trust or mortgaged and afterwards transferred by the trustee or mortgagee for a valuable consideration.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
127 and transferred the endowed property the sales were null and void in the absence of a custom allowing them and that the possession taken by the purchaser was adverse to the vendors and those claiming under them.
In appreciating the effect of this decision it is necessary to bear in mind that the plea of limitation with which the Privy Council was concerned in that case was based on article 124 of the Limitation Act.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
He contends that the question as to whether on facts proved in the present case an inference can be drawn that the previous manager or trustee had been removed is a mixed question of fact and law and the High Court was in error in reversing the decisions of the courts below by holding that the title of the temple had not been lost by adverse possession before the suit was filed.
In our opinion all the facts which have been brought on the record in relation to this aspect of the matter clearly show not only that the alienor disposed of all the property and left the village  but also that for the last 25 years or so the management has been taken over by other persons who are acting as de facto managers of the temple.
