K T Desai P N Bhagwati Rameshwar Nath and Rajinder Narain for the appellants.
C K Daphtary Solicitor General of India Porus A Mehta and B H Dhebar with him for the respondent.
November 10.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMA AYYAR J.
Messrs Abdul Karim and Brothers owned along with certain other properties which are not the subject matter of the present appeal three mills with bungalows and chawls at Ambernath in Thana District and the Bobbin Factory at Tardeo in Bombay.
The appellants are displaced persons and on 30 8 1952 the respondent entered into an agreement with them Exhibit A which is as aptly characterised by learned counsel for the appellants of a composite character consisting of three distinct matters.
Secondly there was a sale of the stock of raw materials unsold finished goods spare parts cars trucks and other movables which were in the mills and the factory with elaborate provisions for the determination and payment of the price therefor in 979 due course.
On 12 2 1954 the respondent issued a notice to the appellants Exhibit C wherein be set out that the appellants had systematically committed breaches of the various terms on which the properties bad been leased to them and called upon them to show cause why the lease should not be cancelled and why they should not be evicted.
On 13 2 1954 the appellants appeared before the respondent and contended that he had no auth ority to issue the notice in question under section 12 and that it was therefore illegal.
Apprehending that the lease might be cancelled and that they might be evicted the appellants filed on 16 2 1954 the application out of which the present appeal arises for a writ of certiorari for quashing the notice Exhibit C and for a writ of prohibition restraining the respondent from taking any further action pursuant thereto.
In support of the petition the appellants urged that section 12 under which the respondent purported to act authorised the cancellation of only leases granted by the evacuee and not by the Custodian himself and that no directions could be given under section 10 as it applied only to properties of the evacuee and that by reason of the sale the movables in question had become the property of the appel 124 980 lants.
But he con tends that this power could be exercised only so as to override a bar imposed by any law but not the contract under which the lease is held and this result flows according to him from the language of the non obstante clause which is limited to anything contained in any other law for the time being in force and does not include or any contract between the parties.
It was next contended by Mr Desai that even if the Custodian had the power under section 12 to cancel the lease in favour of the appellants be bad no power under that section to cancel the agreement to sell the mills and the factory to them which was one of the matters contained in Exhibit A that the notice Exhibit C was to that extent without jurisdiction and that the respondent should accordingly be prohibited from cancelling that portion of Exhibit A in pursuance of Exhibit C.
