 Criminal Appeal No 133 of 1975.
Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
365 The deceased Subhadramma was the wife of the appellant.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child according to customary practice were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
After about one and a half months the accused asked his mother in law and brother in law to send his wife to his place.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
After dinner all of them went to sleep.
When the Police officers went to the village they 366 found the accused tied to a pole.
After holding the inquest the dead body was sent for postmortem examination.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
After completing the investigation the Police laid a chargesheet against the accused and he was duly tried.
He commented on the failure of the Police to seize the mat or bedding on which the deceased was sleeping.
He also contended that two views were possible on the evidence and the accused was entitled to the benefit of doubt.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P W 1 and himself.
At one time it was thou ht that an order of acquittal could be set aside for substantial and compelling reasons only and Courts used to launch on a search to discover those substantial and compelling reasons.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
But fanciful and remote possibilities must be left out of account.
