A K Sen and G L Sanghi Vineet Kumar and Devinder Gupta for the Appellant.
ALL interim orders passed by this Court shall stand vacated from the midnight between 15th and 16th November 1982.
Accordingly on July 22 1966 Ved Gupta purporting to act on behalf of a partnership consisting of himself and the two persons aforementioned as a matter of fact no partnership had been constituted at all by that date applied to the District Magistrate Jammu under section 3 of the Jammu and Kashmir Cinematograph Act 1989 1933 AD herein after referred to as the Act for permission to construct a modern Cinema Hall at the proposed site a detailed description of which was furnished in the plan annexed to the application.
Shri Ved Gupta was informed by the District Magistrate Jammu by his Memo Annexure B that the Government had approved the construction of a Cinema Hall at the proposed site and had granted the requisite permission in his favour as per letter dated September 11 1967 issued by the Secretary to Government General Department.
Clause 15 of the said deed provided that the site for construction of a Cinema which had been obtained on lease by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar in their own names shall not be their personal property but shall be the property of the partnership and that the permission which Ved Gupta had obtained from the Government for construction of the Theatre in the said plot shall be treated as the property of the partnership.
On June 17 1969 Ved Gupta submitted an application to the District Magistrate Jammu reporting that the construction of the theatre and the installation of the cinema 580 tograph machinery and equipment had all been completed pursuant to the permission granted by the Government and requesting that the requisite licence for running the Cinema Theatre may be issued to him under the Act and the Rules.
On July 22 1969 a licence was issued by the District Magistrate to Ved Gupta under Section 3 of the Act to give public exhibition of cinematograph films at the Apsara Theatre situated at Gandhi Nagar Jammu.
A Schedule of conditions imposing various duties and obligations on the licensee is also appended to the said licence.
Consequent thereon the firm was reconstituted and a new partnership deed was executed by the remaining partners on April 11 1970 Clause 18 of the said document contained the following recital The licence for running the Cinema by which Apsara Theatre is being run stands in the name of Shri Ved Gupta so Shakur Dass the 9th party.
 Soon thereafter on December 3 1975 Todar Mall who had retired from the firm and Krishan Kumar who continued to be a partner jointly issued a notice to the District Magistrate Jammu claiming that their names should also be included in the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Apsara Theatre.
A copy 581 of the said letter was sent by Krishan Kumar to Ved Gupta also.
Strangely after the expiry of nearly two years thereafter Krishan Kumar submitted an application to the District Magistrate requesting that the names of himself and of Todar Mal should also be included as licensees in the licence for Apsara Theatre issued to Ved Gupta.
After considering the arguments advanced before him by the counsel appearing for the contending parties the District Magistrate passed a detailed order dated December 29 1977 rejecting the request of Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar and declaring Shri Ved Gupta to be the sole licensee authorized to run the Apsara Theatre.
He filed a writ petition in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir challenging the legality and validity of the orders passed by the District Magistrate and the appellate authority namely the State Government.
Krishan Kumar addressed a letter to the District Magistrate Jammu requesting that the renewal of the licence may be granted in the name of the premises of Apsara Theatre The District Magistrate rejected the said request by a detailed order dated April 21 1979.
Annexure I Before the said order was passed by the District Magistrate an elaborate hearing appears to have been given by him to Krishan Kumar and Ved Gupta represented by their Advocates.
These contentions were repelled by the District Magistrate who held that the renewal of the licence could not be made in the name of any party other than the original licensee namely Shri Ved Gupta who had been declared to be the sole licensee in respect of the Apsara Theatre by the proceedings of his predecessor dated December 29 1977 which was confirmed in appeal by the State Government and which had acquired finality between the parties by reason of the dismissal of the writ petition and the Special Leave Petition by the High Court and Supreme Court respectively.
On the date of the institution itself the District Judge Jammu issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
In being served with the order of injunction Ved Gupta wrote to the District Magistrate on September 24 1980 that it had become impossible for him to operate the Cinema licence in view of the temporary injunction issued by the District Court and since it is only the licensee who is held responsible under the Act and the Rules for due compliance with all the terms and conditions of the licence and answerable to the licensing authority for all commissions and omissions in the Cinema premises he may be saved from any prosecution or other action under law in the capacity of licensee of the Apsara Theatre in respect of any illegal acts or offences committed by others in the said premises.
16980 has intimated that there was exhibition of films on 25th September 1980 in Apsara Theatre by persons other than the licensee And whereas under the provisions of the Cinematograph Act read with rules none other than licensee is permitted to exhibit films during the currency of the licence without permission of the licensing authority Now therefore I A Sahasranaman District Magistrate Jammu hereby order that exhibition of films in Apsara Theatre will remain suspended till further orders.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
