Shanker Ghosh and P K Jain for the Appellants.
Madan Lokur Prashant Bhushan Beni Parshad Rajinder Dhawan and Jitendra Sharma for the Respondents.
The accommodation was for the first time assessed for house tax by the Nagar Palika Ghaziabad with effect from October 1 1976.
The trial court therefore dismissed the suit.
The High Court set aside this conclusion of the trial court.
High Court after discussing various decisions came to the conclusion that in view of the language of Section 2 sub clause 2 Explanation 1 it could not be doubted that period of 10 years will commence from 160 the date of assessment ie October 1 1976 that it is in that view of the matter that the learned Judge of the High Court decreed the suit and hence the present appeal.
Learned counsel for the appellant contended that apart from the controversy about the date which should be the starting point for computing the period of 10 years in view of the language of Sections 39 and 40 of the Act provisions of this Act will be applicable to the present case and therefore a decree for eviction could only be passed.
If it could be passed on anyone of the grounds mentioned in Section 20 clause 2 of this Act in support of this contention the learned counsel placed reliance on decisions in Om Prakash Gupta etc.
 11982 3 SCR 491 and Vineet Kumar vs Mangal Sain Wadhera  On the other hand learned counsel for the respondent contended that the rights of parties will be governed on the basis of the date on which the suit was filed and it was contended that if on the date on which the suit was filed by the respondent the provisions of this Act were not applicable then merely because the proceedings have been pending for all these years it could not be contended that as now 10 years elapsed the decree could not be passed.
Learned counsel placed reliance on a decision in Firms Amar Nath Basheshar Dass vs Tek Chand 11972 3 SCR 922 and contended that this is a decision of three Judges Bench which clearly hold that if the suit was filed within a period of exemption then the suit could be decreed and the provisions of the Act will not be applicable.
Learned counsel further contended that in the decision in Vineet Kumar s case supra on which reliance has been placed by learned counsel for the appellant the Firms Amar Naath Basheshar Dass s case supra has not been referred to and decision in Vineet Kumar s case supra is a judgment by a Bench of two Judges.
It was also contended by learned counsel that as till the matter was pending in the High Court 10 years have not been completed and therefore the High Court passed the decree Now it could not be contended that as during the pendency of the proceedings in this Court 10 years have elapsed and therefore the appellant tenant will be entitled to protection of the provisions of Section 20 It was contended that it is well settled that if the right to file a suit accrues on the date of tiling of the suit then the rights will have to be determined on the basis of the law applicable on the date of the suit and not subsequently.
It is well settled that the rights of the parties will be determined on the basis of the rights available to them on the date of the suit but in Vineet Kumar s case supra this Court took the view that if during the pendency of the proceedings 10 years have elapsed the tenant is entitled to the protection under the Act and in coming to this conclusion the Court also considered the language of Section 39 of the Act and it observed The appellant in the present case only seeks the protection of the new Rent Act which became applicable to the premises in question during the pendency cf the litigation.
