Stress was laid by the learned counsel on the observations at p. 862 where it was observed as follows: "It is true that the misconduct, negligence inefficiency or other disqualification may be the motive or inducing factor which influences the Government to take action under the terms of the contract of employment or the specific service rule, nevertheless, if a right exists under the contract or the rule, to terminate the service, the motive operating on the mind of the Government is, as Chagla C. J. has said in Srinivas Ganesh vs Union of India (2) (supra), wholly irrelevant.
It was of opinion that even in a case of this kind the requirement of bona fides is essential and if the terminataton of service is a colourable exercise of the power or as a result of victimisation or unfair labour praction the industrial tribunal would have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.
Learned counsel for the appellant however urges that the employer was empowered to take action under r. 18 (a) of the Standing orders and having taken action under that rule, there was nothing for it to justify before the tribunal.
Learned counsel for the appellant, however, relies on the decision of this Court in Parshotam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India.
Learned counsel for the appellant also drew our attention to another decision of this Court in 830 The Patna Electric Supply Co. Ltd. Patna vs Bali Rai(1).
Civil Appeal No. 50 of 1961.
Articles 310 and 311 of the Constitution apply to government servants and it is in the 829 light of those Articles read with the Rules framed under article 309 that questions relating to termination of service of government servants have to be considered.
No such constitutional provisions have to be considered when one is dealing with industrial employees.
The reason given by the appellant in the order terminating the services of Sankaran of July 8, 1958, namely, that the proposed inquiry, if conducted, would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if Sankaran were retained in service, cannot be accepted at its face value; so that the necessity for an inquiry intended to be held for misconduct actually charged might be done away with.
