By section 24B the Legal personality of a deceased assessee is extended for the duration of the entire previous year in the course of which he died and therefore the income received by him before his death and that received by his heirs and legal representatives after his death but in that previous 707 year becomes assessable to income tax in the relevant assessment year.
The section was enacted by the Legislature to bring to tax, after his death, income received during his lifetime, and fill up the lacuna which was pointed out by the High Court in Ellis C. Reid vs Commissioner of Income tax, Bombay(1).
Sub section (2) provides that if a person dies before the publication of the public notice under s.22 (1) or before a notice is served on him under sub sections 2 of section 22 or section 34 then the Income tax Officer may proceed to compute or assess the total income of the deceased person as if the heirs and legal representatives were the assessees Sub section (3) provides that when a person dies before a return is furnished by him under the provisions of section 22 or dies after having furnished the return which the (1) (1938) 22 Tax.
As was observed by this Court in Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. vs The State of Bihar(2) legal fictions are only for a definite purpose and they are limited to the purpose for which they are created and should not be extended beyond that legitimate: field.
The provisions of section 24B do not extend to tax liability of the estate of a deceased person beyond the previous or the account year in which that person dies.
(2) , 664.
" Sub section (1) provides that where a person dies his heirs and legal representatives are liable to pay out 705 of the estate of the deceased the tax assessed as payable by the deceased or any tax which would have been payable under the Act by the deceased if he had not died.
the notice under section 34 could validly be served only for the assessment years 1950 51 and notices for the subsequent years were invalid.
only for the purpose of determining whether on that amount tax was to be levied under the Act in the year of assessment.
At the time of his death there was a credit with the company of a sum of money on account of commission earned by him and due to him prior to the date of his death.
Sub section (1) can be divided into two parts; (1) where the income of the deceased was assessed before his death and (2) where the income was not so assessed but it would have been liable to tax had he not died.
It was held that no assessment could be made under section 23(4) of the Act after his death.
In support of his contention counsel for the Commissioner of Income tax relied upon the scheme of the Act as given in Additional Income tax Officer vs E. Alfred(2).
T.R. 10.
