The case was under section 26(2) and slightly different considerations govern section 25 (4) which have induced the legislature to keep the two sections separate.
Sub section
Sub section
Sub section
Sub section
The first sub section deals with a change in the constitution of the firm or where a firm has been newly constituted and the second sub section where there is a succession to the person (which includes a firm) (1) (2) [1956] section C. R. 154. 119 by another person.
(4) of section 25 expressly mentioned that a case of succession was not to be found where there was a mere change in the constitution of the firm.
Section 25 provides for discontinu ance of business.
(4) of section 25.
ORDER BY COURT In accordance with the opinion of the majority the appeals are dismissed with costs.
It was held by Chagla C.J. and Tendolkar J. that the assessee was entitled to the bene fit mentioned in section 25 (4) only in respect of the money lending business.
(4) of section 25, a consideration of subsec.
The High Court held on reference that the firm constituted under the deed of 1918 was dissolved in 1939 and the firms constituted under the two deeds of 1939 were dissolved in 1943.
The first sub section lays down how the business is to be assessed when it is discontinued in any year and sub section 2 provides that any person discontinuing business must give a notice on pain of a penalty.
The High Court of Bombay upheld the contention of Polson, but the Privy Council reversed the decision approving the decision of the Madras High Court in Meyyappa vs Commissioner of Income tax, Madras(1).
(4) allows a partnership to obtain the benefits of sub section
Under section 3 of the Indian Income tax Act, 1918, the subject of the tax was not the income of the previous year of assessment, but the income of the assessment year.
Act of 1922, a change was introduced and the tax was payable on the income of the previous year in the following year which was the year of assessment.
Section 25 (3) and (4) do not apply where the business was not in existence before the Act of 1922 came into force.
In 1932, Figgies retired.
In the 1922 Act, a provision was made to give relief to any business which had paid such double tax when it discontinued busi ness.
(4) of section 25 applicable, could arise.
No question of the dissolution of the firm Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co. ever arose.
The learned Judge held that there was discontinuance.
When Hemchand retired, those businesses were also taken over and merged with the original business.
It was for this reason that sub section
Sub section (4) requires certain conditions to be fulfilled before a claim to relief under it can be made.
It was held by Satyanarayana Rao and Raghava Rao JJ.
The Judicial Committee was not required to consider the matter from the point of view of succession, because sub section
(4) of section 25 and, therefore, the later succession, if any, by the transfer of Febru 100 ary 7, 1948 could not provide the basis for relief under section 25 (4).
In this way all cases of discontinuance of business are treated under the 3rd sub section and all cases of succession under the fourth sub section and all cases of mere change in the constitution of the firm, are neither cases under the third nor under the fourth subsections.
But under the English Common Law, a firm is not regarded as a separate entity from the members composing it.
It was pointed out by this Court in Charandas vs Haridas(1) that those whose duty it is to apply the provisions of the Income tax Act must bear in mind that what may be the resulting position under the law of partnership and/or the Hindu Law is not necessarily the resulting position under the Income tax Act.
Lord Simonds further observed "Their Lordships entertain no doubt of the correctness of these decisions, which appear to be in accord with the plain (1) ; I.L.R. 123 meaning of the section and to be in line with similar deci sions upon the English Income Tax Acts.
The Income tax Act thinks, not in terms of joint family business, but in terms of business in a business sense, and it is the business which was taxed under the Act of 1918 which must cease to exist before the benefit of section 25(3) can be obtained.
(4) of section 25 is that the business must have been charged to tax under the Indian Income tax Act, 1918.
The second condition of the applicability of section 25(4) is that business must have been carried on at the commencement of the Indian Income tax Act (Amendment) Act, 1939, that is, April 1, 1939, by the person claiming the relief.
The claim for relief under that section must fail on this ground also.
This sub section deals with all cases of succession except those dealt with under sub section (4) of section 25 already set out.
(3) was amended by the addition of the words "unless there has been a succession by virtue of which the provisions of sub section
On March 28, 1939, there was a family partition and some vilasams were allotted to the father and the rest to the son, and he was the assessee ' In the assessment year 1939 40, the son claimed that there was a discontinuance of the business within the meaning of section 25(3) of the Income tax Act, 1922 and claimed the benefit of that sub section on the ground that the business of them joint family was taxed under the Act of 1918 and he was not liable to pay tax for the period between April 13, 1938 and March 28, 1939.
" Sub section (4) "Where the person who was at the commencement of the Indian Income tax(Amendment) Act, 1939 (VII of 1939), carrying on any business, profession or vocation on which tax was at any time charged under the provisions of the Indian Income tax Act, 1918, is succeeded in such capacity by another person, the change not being merely a change in the constitution of a partnership, no tax shall be payable by the 116 first mentioned person in respect of the income, profits and gains of the period between the end of the previous year and the date of such succession, and such person may further claim that the income, profits and gains of the previous year shall be deemed to have been the income, profits and gains of the said period.
In 1924, Mathews retired.
In all taxation matters more emphasis must be placed upon the business aspect of the transaction rather than on the purely legal and technical aspect;. " ' Judged from this standpoint, the entry of Hemchand was not a dissolution of the firm of Sait Nagjee Purushotham and Co. He was brought in merely to do the business at one of the branches and to receive remuneration for doing the work.
In 1948, Manecklal and those three other members of the family sold this business to the company.
In 1943, Notley retired.
The Indian Partnership Act has accepted the English Common Law though mercantile usages have crept into business accountancy and the Civil Procedure Code allows a firm to sue or be sued in the firm 's name provided the names of the partners are disclosed.
The Privy Council case has been approved of by this Court in Figgies 's case to which I shall refer presently.
In the deed of 1918, it was stated that this firm carried on business in Calicut, having branches at Madras and Bombay and though Manecklal was included as a new partner, the firm was to carry on and continue the existing partnership business under the same name and style.
This family disrupted in 1943 and divided the business among its members, and claimed the benefit of section 25(4) in respect of all the three businesses.
