Thus by continuing the old laws, till they are repealed, altered or modified, the new State in effect undertook the liability which might arise against it by virtue of the continuance of the old laws, Even if there was some doubt about the new State undertaking the liabilities of the old State in view of the continuance of the old laws, we can in accordance with the decision in the Daltia Dadri Cement Co. 's case(1) look to article VI of the Covenant to come to the conclusion that on continuing the old laws, until they were altered, repealed or modified, the (1) [1959] S.C.R. 729.
The first was whether excise could be levied on the cloth manufactured and the second was whether income tax could be levied on the income of the Mills, in view of the agreement between the Mills and the former Ruler of Jodhpur.
This was the basis of the particular decision arrived at in that case (apart from the general principles laid down in connection with the cession of territory to which we have already referred), and we shall refer to it when dealing with the facts in the present case.
Res pondent in Appeal No. 887 will get his costs from the appel lant.
The respondent claimed refund of Rs. 20,855/ along with interest and costs.
180 all laws in all Covenanting States were repealed and the laws in force in the State of Patiala were to apply mutatis mutandis to the entire territories of the new State.
There was also a provision in the Covenant by which the assets and liabilities of the covenanting States became the assets and liabilities of the new State.
268 of 1954, 203 of 1955, 4 of 1954 and 27 of 1954.
Further article 295(2) provided that the Government of each State specified in Part B of the First Schedule shall, as from the commencement of the Constitution, be the successor of the Government of the corresponding Indian State as regards all property and assets and all rights, liabilities and obligations.
One 178 of the suits, out of which appeal No. 886 has arisen, was ismissed by the trial Court.
March 12, 1964.
If there were any acts of the new State which were equivocal in character, it would have been possible to bold in the light of article VI of the Covenant that its intention was to assume the liabilities.
In 1948, however, the process of merger in Rajasthan began and the 177 first merger that took place was of the former States of Alwar, Bharatpur, Dholpur and Karauli, which formed the Matsya Union as from March 18, 1948 by a Covenant entered on February 28, 1948.
It was alleged on behalf of the respondent that the reason why he failed to export the entire 176 quantity of the commodity before December 2, 1947 was due to market conditions and inability to get allotment of railway wagons.
We are therefore of opinion that there was recognition of liability by the new State throughout this process and under the circumstances the suit was main tainable against the Part B State of Rajasthan in view of article 295(2) of the Constitution.
