The amendment has merely clarified what, in our opinion, was included in the unamended definition itself.
When an award is made and it prescribes a new wage structure, in law the old contractual wage structure becomes inoperative and its place is taken by the wage structure prescribed by the award.
The development of industrial law during the last decade bears testimony to the fact that on references made under section 10(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, terms of employment have constantly been examined by industrial adjudication and wherever it appeared appropriate to make changes in them, they have been made in accordance with the well recognised principles of fair play and justice to both the parties.
Appeal No. 251 of 1963.
Section 2(vi) as it stood at the relevant time, provides, inter alia, that wages means all remuneration, capable of being expressed in terms of money, which would, if the terms of the ,contract of employment, express or implied, were fulfilled, be payable.
The subsequent amendment expressly provides by section 2(vi) (a) that any remuneration payable under any award or settlement between the parties or order of a Court, would be included in the main definition under section 2(vi).
This agreement was subsequently published in the Bihar Gazette as a part of the award.
March 24, 1964.
It urged that section 15 of the Act was inapplicable, because the rates of wages fixed by the award did not fall within the definition of wages prescribed by section 2(vi) and it also argue,, that the claim of the respondents was barred by limitation.
(2) A.I.R. 1930 Bom.
423 Chatterjee and Sons vs Chandreswar, Singh(1), the Calcutta High Court appears to have taken the view which supports Mr. Setalvad 's argument, whereas in the Modern Mills Ltd. vs V. R. Mangalvedhkar(2), and in V. B. Godse, Manager, Prabha Mills Ltd., vs R. M. Naick, Inspector, under the Payment of Wages Act(3), the Bombay High Court has interpreted section 2(vi) to include wages directed to be paid by industrial adjudication.
There would be no order as to costs.
In a sense, the latter wage structure must be deemed to be a contract between the parties, because that, in substance, is the effect of industrial adjudication.
The short question which arises in this appeal is whether the term "wages" as defined by section 2(vi) of the (No. 4 of 1936) (hereinafter called 'the Act ') includes wages fixed by an award in an industrial dispute between the employer and his employees.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated March 20, 1957, of the Patna High Court in Civil Revision No. 40 of 1956.
