Overtime is payable for work in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day.
Overtime under section 14 is only payable when the workman works in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day.
Under sub rule (2) of Rule 24 the working day of an adult can be so arranged that inclusive of intervals of rest it does not exceed 12 hours on any day.
If he takes work during the extra 4 hours or fails to specify the hours of rest he must pay overtime.
The periods of work of an adult worker in a factory shall be so arranged that inclusive of his intervals for rest under section 55 they shall not spread over more than ten and a half hours in any day: Provided that the Chief Inspector may, for reasons to be specified in writing, increase the spread over to twelve hours.
There is no provision in the Act and the Rules corresponding to section 55 of the Factories 640 Act to which reference will be made hereafter.
There is no provision in the which breaks up the hours of work by interposing a compulsory period of rest as is done by the latter part of section 55 of the .
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work (which cannot exceed 9) is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
(2). . . . "56.
Average duration of actual work payable at ordinary rate of wages per day thus comes to 8 hours.
section V. Gupte, Solicitor General, M. Rajagopalan and K. R. Choudhuri, for the appellants.
ivil Appeal No. 325 of 1965.
As the heading of the Rule shows these are the hours of work.
The section so read lays down : "Where an employee. . . works on any day in excess of 9 hours, the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate. . . " Under Rule 25 (1) (b) this overtime rate is double the ordinary rate of wages.
The contention of the workmen is that section 13 fixes the number of hours in a normal working day and this number is inclusive of one or more specified intervals.
We hold, therefore, that the decision of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal is right in a circumstances of this case.
That action speaks of overtime.
If work on any day is taken which goes beyond 9 hours the provisions of section 14 apply.
Rule 25.Extra wages for overtime (1) When a worker works in an employment for more than nine hours on any day or for more than forty eight hours in any week, he shall, in respect of overtime work, be entitled to wages, (a) in the case of employment in Agriculture, at one and a half time the ordinary rate of wages; (b) in the case of any other scheduled employment, at double the ordinary rate of wages.
Section 13 of the Act does not itself fix the hours of work or rest or overtime.
