(c) of cl.
(c) of cl.
Then increments under sub cl.
(d) for the years 1960 and 1961 and his salary therefore as on January 1, 1962 under the Sastry award would come to Rs. 119.
Therefore under sub cl.
(d) of cl.
(d) of cl.
(d) of cl.
(d) of cl.
(d) of el.
Thus sub cl.
(a) of cl.
(a) of cl.
(a) of cl.
(a) of cl.
(a) of el.
(iv) his salary will be fixed at Rs. 100.
Under sub cl.
under sub cls.
(iv) of the Desai award.
(d) provides for a period after the date up to which el.
(c) Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
(c) Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
The fact that by oversight sub cl.
Therefore, for purposes of sub cl.
(b).] 4 A.
(iv), and the main dispute in the present case is about this subclause.
But under cl.
(ii) works.
I le joined service on April 11, 1949.
(d) is also subject to cls.
The award of the labour court therefore in the case of Tek Chand Sharma is correct.
(iv) was not made a separate clause would make no difference for sub cl.
M. K. Ramamurthi, for the respondents.
His place of posting was Phagwara in area ITT.
We make no order as to costs in the circumstances.
We make no order as to costs in the circumstances.
[NOTE : Omitted by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in view of change in cl.
(b) read with sub cl.
(b) read with sub cl.
(b) read with sub cl.
As Rs. 119 is the eleventh stage in the Sastry scale, Ram Parkash would be entitled to the eleventh stage in the Desai scale, which would be Rs. 170.
(iv) and cl.
(iv) which provides for actual calculations starts with the words "subject to rules (i) to (iii)" and therefore the actual calculations made under cl.
The appellant bank 's contention is that two further annual increments allowed under sub cl.
(iv) his salary has to be fixed as on January 1, 1959 at Rs. 106.
(d) as was done by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in its modification of the Sastry award.
This argument has arisen because the Desai award did not separate sub cl.
(b) To the basic pay into which he is fitted under cl.
Further cl.
(iv) in accordance with what we have interpreted these sub clauses as well as cls.
This paragraph was considered by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in appeal from the Sastry award and certain modifications were made thereunder by paras 164 and 166 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision in appeal.
Under subcl.
(ii) and cl.
We see no force in this submission.
(ii) of the Desai award, the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1, 1962.
C.A. 1009 dismissed.
(b)To the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause (a) annual increment or increment& in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
(iii) In the matter of adjustment, all efficiency bars, whether in the previously existing scales or in the scales provided by the Sastry award as modified should be ignored.
(ii), no further increments even under sub cl.
Therefore, two increments under sub cl.
901 (ii) Subject to rule (i), the adjusted basic pay in the scale provided in the Sastry award as modified shall not exceed what point to point adjustment would give him or the maximum in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Wanchoo, J.
The second group 900 consisted of workmen who on January 1, 1962 were employed in banks which were not governed by the provisions of the Sastry award as modified and were not thus drawing basic pay on the footing of scales of pay provided by that award.
(d) cannot be permitted in view of cl.
Where under cl.
After this has been worked out, then comes sub cl.
(1) 903 (d) of cl.
5.356 of the Desai award also, which as we have indicated, is in substance the same as para.
C.A. 1009 is hereby dismissed.
