In the context of section 10E, I am inclined to construe this rule making power liberally The Central Government has power to constitute the Company Law Board, to delegate its functions to the Board and to control (1) (2) 342 the Board in the exercise of its delegated functions.
" This sub section enables the work of the Board to be distributed among members while sub section
Sub section (4A) of section 10E, which has been added by an amending Act of 1965, after the events in this case, reads: "10E. (4A).
If section 237(b) is used by members, as an alternative to section 236, the evidence must unerringly point to the grounds on which alone action can be founded.
The new sub section involves a delegation of the powers of the Central Government to a member of the Board which the Act previously allowed to be made to the Board only.
The other provides for the procedure of the Board.
The affidavit merely says that these reports indicated the need for a deeper probe.
The first ground has already been dealt with in part when I considered the malice and influence of the Minister.
(b) of section 237 requires two things: (1) the opinion of the Board and (2) the existence of circumstances suggesting one or more of the matters.
For sub section
I also think that section 237(b) is not violative of articles 19(1)(f) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.
The power under sub section
Appellant No. 2 who is the managing director of the company is not a citizen, but even assuming that section 237(b) imposes restrictions on his right of property or his right to carry on his occupation as managing director, those restrictions are reasonable and are imposed in the interests of the general public.
No doubt, the section confers a discretion but it sets its own limits upon the discretion by stating clearly what must be looked for in the shape of evidence before the drastic act of investigation into the affairs of a company can be taken.
One provides for distribution of work in such a way that each constituent part of the Board properly authorised, becomes the Board.
(1) of section 642 read with sub section
On April 4, 1965, a meeting of the company 's directors was held in New Delhi which was attended by one Kriegstein, a representative of Kali Chemie and also by the General Manager of M/s. T. T. K. & Co. Certain proposals were discussed and it was decided that the company should give notice to L. A. Mitchell Ltd. canceling the agreement with them.
Accordingly, by a notice dated April 2. 1965 the agreement with the said L. A. Mitchell Ltd., was cancelled.
by no other.
(6) of section 10E provides that the Board shall, in S5SCI 23(a) 330 the exercise of the powers delegated to it, be subject to the control of the Central Government and the order distributing the business was made with the permission of the Central Government.
The order dated May 19, 1965 was passed by the Chairman of the Company Law Board Mr. Setalvad submitted that only the Board could pass an order under section 237, the Central Government could delegate its function under section 237 to the Board but it had no power to authorise the Chairman to sub delegate this function to himself and consequently, the Company Law Board (Procedure) Rules, 1964 made by the Central Government on February 1, 1964 and the Chairman 's order of distribution of business dated February 6, 1964 delegating the function of the Board under section 237 to the Chairman are ultra vires the and the impugned order is invalid.
It reads: "237.
This was admitted by the appellants who pointed out that after considerable negotiations they induced Lord Poole, the President of the collaborating firm, to invest a further sum of pound 25,000.
No jurisdiction, outside the section which empowers the initiation of investigation, can be exercised.
Act No. 31 of 1965 has now inserted sub section
On May 30, 1964 and July 9, 1964 four of its directors submitted two memoranda alleging irregularities and even illegalities in the conduct of the company 's affairs to the Company Law Board.
In the exercise of the power conferred by this rule, the Chairman assigned the business under section 237 to himself.
" The Chairman by an order dated February 6, 1964 specified the cases or classes of cases which are to be considered jointly by the Board and distributed the remaining business of the Board between the Chairman and the member each acting individually.
(1) of section 637 read with sub section
On July 28, 1961.
339 The first circumstance is "delay, bungling and faulty plan ning" resulting in "double expenditure" for which the collaborators had put the responsibility on the second appellant.
When it spoke of procedure in sub section (5) it spoke of the procedure of the Board as constituted.
By section 237(b) the power is conferred on the Central Government but under the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1963 a Board of Company Law,, Administration consisting of a Chairman and a member has been set up.
(5) of section 10E the Central Government made the Company Law Board (Procedure) Rules, 1964 and one such rule dealt with distribution of business to the following effect: "3.
My 331 order proposed by him but as I view the matter a little differently on some of the aspects of the case, I wish to record my reasons briefly.
The power under section 237 was placed among the powers exercisable by the Chairman singly.
If a statute entrusts an administrative function involving the exercise of a discretion to a Board consisting of two or more persons it is to be presumed that each member of the Board should exercise his individual judgment on the matter and all, the members of the Board should act together and arrive at a joint decision.
On August 30, 1962, the licence granted to M / section T. T. K. Chemicals Ltd. was revoked as the company had decided to surrender it.
On December 23, 1960 the 2nd appellant wrote a letter to the Minister of Commerce and Industry objecting to the grant of a licence to M/s. T. T. K. & Co. Both were considered by the Licensing Committee.
On May 7, 1965 representatives of the appellant company and of Kali Chemie met at Stuttgart when proposals for an agreement were discussed.
On August 25, 1959 and September 23, 1960 appellant No. 2 obtained two licences for the manufacture of 2500 and 1900 tonnes of barium chemicals per year in the name of Transworld Traders of which lie was the proprietor.
The Chairman obtained the opinion of quite a few of his assistants (perhaps more than was altogether necessary) and this fact is stated to establish his fairness to and honest dealing with the Company.
On May 19 1965 the first respondent passed the impugned order which inter alia stated: "In the opinion of the Company Law Board there are circumstances suggesting that the business of M/s Barium Chemicals Ltd is being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors, members and other persons; and further that the persons concerned in the management of the affairs of the company have in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
On December 5, 1960 M/s. T. T. K. & Co., applied for a licence for manufacture of barium chemicals.
The function under section 237(b) involves the exercise of a discretion.
In September, 1964, a meeting was affanged in London between the company 's representatives and the representatives of L.A. Mitchell Ltd., of which Lord Poole was the Chairman.
By another notification of the same date the Central Government has made and published rules made by it in exercise of its powers under section 642(1) read with section 10E(5) rule 3 of which reads thus: "Distribution of business; The Chairman may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, by order in writing, distribute the business of the Board, among himself and the other member or members, and specify the cases or classes of cases which shall be considered jointly by the Board.
, In the mean time, respondent No. 2 was appointed a, Minister without portfolio and rejoined the Cabinet which lie had left ' earlier owing to certain circumstances which are not relevant for the present.
(5) merely enables the procedure of the Board to be regulated.
No doubt the formation of opinion is subjective but the existence of circumstances relevant to the inference as the sine qua non for action must be demonstrable.
At any rate the case was argued on this footing.
320 A lengthy argument was addressed before us by Mr. Setalvad bearing on the question of mala fides in the course of which he referred us to certain documents.
By May 11, 1965, the position therefore was that the collaboration agreement between the company and L. A. Mitchell Ltd. was agreed to be continued and consequently the negotiations with the German company and M/s. T. T. K. & Co., were not to proceed further.
(1) of section 10E of the , the Central Government delegated its powers and functions to the Board under section 237(b) among others.
It indicates a rule of construction of a statute or other instrument conferring an authority.
None of these shows an intent to defraud by which phrase is meant something to induce another to act to his disadvantage.
Lord Coleridge, C. J. said at p. 262: "It was not competent to them to delegate powers, which required the united action of the three, to be exercised according to the unaided judgment of one of them." Again, in Vine vs National Dock Labour Board(1), the House of Lords, held that a local board set up, under the scheme embodied in the schedule to the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Order, 1947 had no power to assign its disciplinary function under cls.
The Committee rejected the application of M/s. T. T. K. & Co., but advised them to apply again after six months.
Sections 235 251 provide for investigation of the affairs of a company and for sundry matters related to such investigations.
On a representation by M / section T. T. K. &.Co., the Committee reconsidered the matter and recommended the grant of licence to M/s. T. T. K. Chemicals Private Limited.
There is no such affidavit and the reason is that the Chairman completely misunderstood his own powers.
As a general rule, "if the, statute directs that certain acts shall be done in a specified manner or by certain persons, their performance in any other manner than that specified or by any other person than one of those name is impliedly prohibited.
(2)[1944] F.C.R. 1.
(a) of sub section
As a general rule, whatever a person has power to do himself, he may do by means of an agent.
Clause (a) of sub section
" The order was made by the Chairman of the Board, Mr. R. C. Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
The learned Attorney General disputed these submissions.
Appeal No. 381 of 1966.
An examination of the section would show that cl.
section Mohan Kumaramangalam, C. Ramakrishna and A. V. V. Nair, for respondent No. 2.
But, Mr. Setalvad says, since the grounds have in fact been disclosed in the affidavit of Mr. Dutt upon which his subjective satisfaction was based it is open to the court to consider whether those grounds are relevant or are irrelevant because they are extraneous to the question as to the existence or otherwise of any of the matters referred to in sub cls.
(d) That information has been withheld from the members about its affairs which might reasonably be expected including calculation of commission payable to (i) managing or other director, (ii) managing agent, (iii) the secretaries and treasurers, (iv) the managers.
None of the reports was produced.
The naming of I delegate to, do an act involving a discretion indicates that the delegate was selected because of his peculiar skill and the confidence reposed in him, and there is a presumption that he is required to do the act himself and cannot redelegate his authority.
Neither proves the existence of circumstances under which the power could be exercised.
(1) of section 637 read with section 10(E)(1) empower the Central Government to delegate its powers under section 237 to the Company Law Board.
4A of section 10E which was subsequently added but not made retrospective by an amendment of the Act which confers an express power on the Central Government to enable the Chairman to distribute the powers and functions of the Board.
But if the circumstances pointed out are such that no inference of the kind stated in section 237(b) can at all be drawn the action would be ultra vires the Act and void.
" By order dated February 6, 1964 the Chairman of the Company Law Board specified the cases and classes of cases to be considered jointly by the Board and distributed the remaining business between himself and other members of the Board.
There is first mala fides attributed to the chairman because he is said to have acted under the behest of a Minister of Cabinet interested in another rival Company.
Shelat J.
333 (2) The Company Law Board shall consist of such number of members, not exceeding five, as the Central Government deems fit, to be appointed by that Government by notification in the Official Gazette.
" Paragraph 14 of the affidavit).
On June 4, 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ, direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19, 1965.
The Board.
This, Mr. Setalvad says" could not be done in the absence of an express provision in the Act.
On May 19, 1965 Mr. D. section Dang, Secretary of the Company Law Board issued an order on behalf of the Company Law Board made under section 237 (b) of the appointing 4 persons as Inspectors for investigating the affairs of the Barium Chemicals Ltd., appellant No. I before us, since its incorporation in the year 1961 and to report to the Company Law Board inter alia "all the irregularities and contravention in respect of the provisions of the or of any other law for the time being in force and the person or persons responsible for such irregularities and contravention.
In this background, by conferring on the Central Government the additional power of framing rules regulating the procedure of the Board and generally to carry out the purposes of section 10E, the Parliament must have intended that the internal Organisation of the Board and the mode and manner of transacting its business should be regulated entirely by rules framed by the Government.
There was considerable delay in taking up the matter and this was explained as occasioned by the language riots, and other more pressing occupation.
In Cook vs Ward(1), the Court held that where a drainage board constituted by an Act of Parliament was authorised by it to delegate its powers to a committee, the powers so delegated to the committee must be exercised by them acting in concert and it was not competent to them to apportion those powers amongst themselves and one of them acting, alone, pursuant to such apportionment, could not justify his acts under the statute.
An action, not based on circumstances suggesting an inference of the enumerated kind will not be valid.
The learned Attorney General submitted that a distribution of business among the members of the Company Law Board is not a delegation of its authority, and the maxim has no application in 341 such a case.
Under sections 10E(1) and 637(1)(a), the Central Government has power to constitute a Company, Law Board and to delegate its functions to the Board.
This was followed by an enquiry by the Regional Director of the Board at Madras (Shri R. section Ramamurthi, I.A.S.) who made a report in September 1964.
This is not sufficient.
In this connection he has referred us to sub section
This Board is constituted under section 10E which has been introduced in the parent Act.
specified in sub cls.
(4) No act done by the Company Law Board shall be called in question on the ground only of any defect in the constitution of, or the existence of any vacancy in, the Company Law Board.
The matter was enquired into by the Regional Director of the Board at Madras and he, in his report, sent to the Board in September 1964 suggested an urgent and comprehensive investigation into the affairs of the Company.
Now, the first of its conclusion is to the effect that the materials show that there was delay , bungling, faulty planning of the project and that this resulted in double expenditure for which the collaborators had put the responsibility upon the Managing Director, that is, appellant No. 2.
On November 27, 1961, the Government granted a licence to the company for the import of machinery.
In paragraph 5 Mr. Dutt has set out that the petition is liable to be dismissed summarily being grounded on facts which are, false, speculative and lacking in material particulars.
But the maxim "delegatus non potest delegare" must not be pushed too far.
The former is a definite conclusion the latter a mere fishing expedition.
The Board was constituted on February 1, 1964 by a notification and by a notification of even, date in exercise of the powers conferred by cl.
In the present case no action under any of the sections noted so far was taken but it was taken under section 237.
If the action is questioned on the ground that no circumstance leading to an inference of the kind contemplated by the section exists, the action might be exposed to interference unless the existence of the circumstances is made out.
We find, however, that the Central Government had under sections 10E(5) and 642(1) ample power to frame rules authorising the Chairman to distribute the business of the Board.
The question naturally divides itself into two parts.
Clause (a) of this section provides that in the case of a company having a share capital the investigation can be ordered either on the application of not less than 200 members or of members holding not less than one tenth of the total voting power therein.
Section 235 deals with "Investigation of affairs of company on application by members or report by Registrar".
The affidavits which were filed in answer to the petition do not disclose 340 even the prima facie existence of these circumstances.
On May It 1965 another meeting took place when it was decided that without prejudice to what was stated in the notice of April 4, 1965, the appellant company should withdraw para 9 thereof whereby the agreement between them was terminated.
The order of the Board was challenged on 5 grounds which are briefly as follows: (1) that the order was made mala fide; (2) that in making the order the Board had acted on material extraneous to the matters mentioned in section 237(b) of the ; (3) that the order having in fact been made at the instance of the shareholders is invalid and on a true construction of section 237 this could not be done; (4) that the order was invalid because it was made by the Chairman of the Board and not by the Board; and (5) that the provisions of section 237(b) are void as offending articles 14 and 19(1) (g) of the Constitution.
(4A) in section 10E authorising the Board to delegate its powers and functions to its Chairman or other members or principal officer.
No reasonable person who had given proper consideration to these circumstances could have formed the opinion that they suggested any fraud as mentioned in the order dated May 19, 1965.
" See Crawford on statutory Construction, 1940 Edn., article 195, p. 335: Normally, a discretion entrusted by Parliament to an administrative organ must be exercised by.
However, under sections 10E(5) and 642(1), the Central Government may frame rules regulating the procedure of the Board and generally to carry out the purposes of the Act.
The formation of an opinion must, therefore, be as to whether there are circumstances suggesting the existence of one or more of the matters in sub cls.
Bachawat, J.
It was this difculty of the shareholders which is a reality which had led to the enactment of the section.
Thereafter a permit for importing the requisite machinery was granted to the Company.
Appellant No. 2 was appointed Managing Director of the Company from December 5, 1961 and his appointment and remuneration were approved by the Central Government on July 30, 1962.
It is also suggested by Mr. Setalvad that the action approved of in December, 1964 was delayed till May, 1965 because in the interval some negotiations with Kali Chemie had been started and had they ended fruitfully M/s. T.T. Krishnamachari & Sons would have got the sole selling agency of the products of barium chemicals.
Prima facie, all the members of the Board acting together were required to discharge this function and they could not delegate their duty to the Chairman.
The attack on the order thus fails and the appeal is dismissed with costs.
In paragraphs 5, 8 and 16 of his affidavit, the Chairman stated that he had various materials on the basis of which he passed the order.
with the previous approval of the Central Government, may, by order in writing, 334 authorise the chairman or any of its other members or its principal officer (whether known as secretary or by any other name) to exercise and discharge, subject to such conditions and limitations, if any, as may be specified in the order, such of its powers and functions as it may think fit; and every order made or act done in the exercise of such powers or discharge of such functions shall be deemed to be the order or act, as the case may be, of the Board.
This shows that rivalry between two manufacturing concerns was not the prime 335 motive.
The second appellant once more protested, this time to the Prime Minister but that was rejected.
They follow the scheme of sections 164 175 of the English Act of 1948.
One of the members of the Board has to be appointed a Chairman and this necessarily implies that the Board shall consist of at least two members.
Section 235 enables the Central Government to appoint inspectors for investigation and report generally if the Registrar reports under section 234 and also if a stated number of shareholders or shareholders possessing a stated voting power apply.
The issued capital of the Company was Rs. 50, 00,000 and the public was invited to subscribe for shares in the Company.
