For section 10 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted, namely "10.
" This section was amended by section 8 of the Madras General Sales tax (3rd amendment) Act, 1956 which reads as follows (1) 666 "Substitution of new section for section 10 in Madras Act IX of 1939.
Section 2(b) of the Act defines a "dealer" as "a person who carries on the business of buying, selling .
The Division Bench consisting of section Ramachandra Iyer, C.J. and Ramakrishnan, J. reversed the judgment of the Single Judge, holding that Rule 21 A of the Sales Tax Rules was illegal and ultra vires and the respondent was not liable to pay the sales tax due from his predecessor in title, Purushottam Raju.
It was then submitted by Mr. Ram Reddy that Rule 21 A may be supported by the language of section 10(1) of the Act which states "10.
Section 10 of the Act as it stood before the Madras General Sales tax (3rd amendment) Act, 1956 (Act No. XV of 1956) read as follows "The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments, if any, and within such time, as may be specified in the notice of assessment, not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
It was next argued on behalf of the appellants that upon a true construction of the registered instrument dated October 5, 1956 the respondent undertook to pay not only Sch.
Section 19(2)(c) deals with the assessment to tax of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed.
In Chatturam vs C.I.T. Bihar(1), the Federal Court pointed out, relying upon the decision of the House of Lords in (1) , 21 1.
(2) , 665 Whitney vs Commissioners of Inland Revenue("), that the liability to tax does not depend upon assessment.
Section 5 of the Madras General Clauses Act (Madras Act No. 1 of 1891) provides as follows "5.
R. Ganapathy Iyer, for the respondent.
Appeal No. 696 of 1966.
The 3rd Amendment Act, 1956 received the assent of the President on October 1, 1956 but it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8. 1956.
(1) Where any Act to which this Chapter applies is not expressed to come into operation, on a particular day, then, it shall come into operation on the day on which the assent thereto of the Governor, the Gover nor General or the President, as the case may require, is first published in the Official Gazette.
The respondent purchased, by a registered instrument dated October 5, 1956, the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the name All India Trading Company.
Purushottam Raju was the sole proprietor of the business and had been assessed to sales tax in respect of his turnover for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami, J.
Payment and recovery of tax. (1) The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments, if any, and within such time, as may be specified in the notice of assessment, not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
Payment and recovery of tax. (1) The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments, if any, and within such time, as may be specified in the notice of assessment, not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
The respondent 6 63 denied liability to pay sales tax but his contention was over ruled by the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer.
of income.
Section 3(1) of the Act is the charging section.
" It was contended that under this section the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default is charged on the property of the person liable to pay the tax.
By the amending Act of 1959 (Act 1 of 1959) an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
