(5) of section 124, and this opening sentence would cover all II appeals under sub section
(5) of section 124, but in the context and setting, the heading of r. 5 brings out the scope of the rule.
Under r.3(d) what the panchayat does is to consider objections and suggestions and then finally make the choice as regards two things, i.e., the tax or fee to be imposed and the rate at which it is to be levied.
But the learned counsel for the Company, Mr. Ashok Sen, argues that this interpretation is not correct because para 2 of r.4 says that the tax shall accordingly be levied from the date which shall be specified in the notice, and he says that if the octroi limits had not been approved of by the time the resolution is passed, how could the tax be levied from the date specified in the notice.
Rule 3(c) has to be similarly read.
The High Court has held that as r. 5 applies to all appeals under s.124(5) of the Panchayat Act, the fixing of the commencement of the period of limitation as the date of publication of the notice under r.4 for all appeals is arbitrary and destructive of the right of appeal.
The learned counsel for the appellant says that the approval of the Collector on January 14, 1964, relates back and, therefore, the levy of octroi from April 1, 1963, was regularised.
This Part consists of rules 21 to 35, and two Schedules.
The learned counsel for the Panchayat contends that these things are done and that the resultant product is completely different from the tea imported into octroi limits.
Rule 4 requires a notice stating two things; (1) the tax or fee to be levied and (2) the rate.
The resolution, after reciting the need 215 for levying octroi duty and the relevant statutory provisions, concludes: ". . it passes the resolution to levy minimum octroi tax on the goods coming within its local limits as per the Schedule No. 1 of the Rules." On November 17, 1962, resolution No. 5 was passed which reads as follows: "5.
The scheme of the Fees Rules accordingly seems to be that the general procedure for levying taxes or fees is laid down and then this procedure is made applicable to the levy of various taxes mentioned in the other parts of the Rules.
M. section K. Sastri, R. N. Sachthey, section P. Nayar for R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 3.
Para 2 of the return only alleged: "This respondent says that at that time no copy of the Rules required to be published by Rule 4 of the Rules was exhibited along with the said Notice.
Section 3(13) of the Bombay Village Panchayat Act, 1958 (Bombay Act III of 1959) defines "octroi" or "octroi duty" to mean "a tax on the 'entry of goods into a village 217 for consumption, use or sale therein".
Accordingly.
The scheme of the Fees Rules is first to prescribe general rules and then to deal individually with various taxes.
No such specific point was taken in the grounds of appeal to the Panchayat Samiti.
On February 25, 1963, resolution No.3 was passed.
Appeal No. 1375 of 1966.
On May 29, 1963, the Company filed an appeal 216 under section 124(5) of the Act before the Panchayat Samiti, Parseoni.
