While sparing the service of any judicial officer to the government it is open to the High Court to fix the period during which he may hold any executive post.
Neither Bagchi 's case nor Ranga Mahammad 's case is of any assistance to us in deciding the question whether the High Court has competence to fill some of the posts in the secretariat by transfer judicial officers under Its control.
It is for the executive to say whether a particular officer would meet its requirements or not.
Those officers are now functioning in the posts to which they were transferred.
Proceeding further this Court observed: "This is, of course, as it should be, the High Court is in the day to day control of courts and knows the capacity for work of individuals and the requirements of a particular station or Court.
(e) Shri P.K. Mohanti, district and sessions judge, Bolangir Kalahandi, as deputy secretary to the law department, a post which was vacant then, and (f) Shri P.C. Dey, member sales tax tribunal, as district and sessions judge, Bolangir Kalahandi.
No doubt all these officers belong to the judicial service of the State and they were before 1962 presiding over district courts or courts subordinate to them and as such were under the control of the High Court.
ivil Appeals No. 625630 of 1967.
district and sessions judge.
Having No. alternative before it, the government implemented the orders in question on March 6 1967, on the very day the decision of the High Court was rendered.
As Shri K.K. Bose and Shri B.K. Patro had not been placed at the disposal of the government for any definite period, it was open to the High Court to recall them and post them as presiding officers of district courts.
If the sense of the matter be the former, then the High Court and if the latter, the Governor, would possess that 'power.
In Bagchi 's case,(1), this Court laid down that the word "control" found in article 235 includes disciplinary jurisdiction as well.
In other respects the judgment appealed against is upheld.
then the transfer of District Judges already appointed or promoted and posted in the cadre must necessarily be outside the power of the Governor and fall to be made by the High Court as part of the control vested in it by article 235." After analysing articles 233 and 235 and noticing the development of the law on the subject this Court held that under article 233, the Governor is only concerned with the appointment, promotion and posting to the cadre of district judges but not with the transfer of district judges already appointed or promoted and posted to the cadre which power is vested in the High Court under article 235 as the control given to the High Court over the district courts under that Article includes control over the officers who preside over those courts.
Before considering the correctness of that submission it is necessary to notice that this argument breaks down when we come to the question of filling up the post of the Registrar.
The government 's prayer for necessary certificates for leave to appeal to this Court was rejected.
The policy displayed by the Constitution has been in this direction as has been explained in earlier cases of this Court.
163 be quoted for a proposition that may seem to follow logically from it.
The order of the High Court consists of two parts, namely, (1) holding that Shri B.K. Patro, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri P.C. Dey had no authority to act as law secretary, superintendent and legal remembrancer and member sales tax tribunal, respectively, on and after October 10, 1966, and (2) commanding the State of Orissa, the Chief Secretary to the government of Orissa, the Home Secretary to the government of Orissa, Shri P.C. Dey, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri Patro to implement the transfers ordered by the High Court on October 10, 1966.
The learned Attorney General told 'us that the government has no objection to those officers continuing in those posts for the present.
The rule laid down in that decision is of no assistance in determining the question as to whether the High Court has power to fill up some of the posts in the secretariat.
Such a mode of reasoning assumes that the law is necessarily a logical code, whereas every lawyer must acknowledge that the law is not always logical at all.
be found.
In that cadre, no officer holding any post under the government was included.
The High Court was repeatedly requesting the government to send back judicial officers working in administrative posts as district judges or as addl.
On September 21 1966, this Court rendered its decision in Ranga Mahammad 's(1) case.
(1) ; 157 Shri B.K. Patro one of the district and sessions.
In view of that concession it is unnecessary for us to go into that question further.
Hence without the consent of the High Court the government could not have posted them to administrative posts in 1962.
