On the terms of section 5, it would be perfectly open to the State Government to send before the Special Court any case, whatever its nature, whether it has arisen out of a particular incident or re lates to a crime of normal occurrence, whether the offence involved is grave or simple, whether it needs more expedi tious trial or not.
Section 5, sub clause (1), of the impugned Act is in these terms : " A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases, as the State Govern ment may, by general or special order in writing, direct.
If the provision of section 5 of the Act is invalid even to the limited extent mentioned above.
The classifi cation of ' 'offences" by itself is not calculated to touch any individual as such, although it may, after the classifi cation is made, affect all individuals who may commit the particular offence.
We find men accused of heinous crimes called upon to answer for their lives and liber ties.
Citing the case of Sunday Lake Iron Co. vs Wakefield, Rogers vs Alabama and Concordia Fire Ins.
The different sec tions of the Act have been analysed and the important dif ferences have been clearly indicated by the learned Chief Justice of West Bengal and need not be repeated in detail.
F.N. Balsara(2), where my learned brother Fazl Ali J. has distilled in the form of seven principles most of the useful observations of this Court in the Sholapur Mills case, ChiranLal Chowdhury vs The Union of India and Others(3) Willis says : "The guaranty of the equal protection of the laws means the protection of equal laws.
The question is whether section 5 (1) which really imposes this substantial inequality on particular persons can be saved from the operation of article 14 on the principle of ration al classification of the kind permissible in law.
" Bose J. We are concerned here with article 14 of the Constitution and in particular with the words "equality before the law" and "equal protection of the law.
The elimination of the committal proceedings and of trial by jury (sec. 6), the taking away of the right to a de novo trial on transfer (sec. 7), the vesting of discretion in the Special Court to refuse to summon a defence witness if it be satisfied that his evidence will not be material (sec.
(3) ; (2) ; 350 class legislation, but does not forbid classification which rests upon reasonable grounds of distinction.
The part of sub section 5(1) which I am now examining confers a power on the State government to make a classification of offences, classes of offences or classes of cases, which, as said by Chakravartti J., "means a proper classification.
The bill of complaint succeeded but it was provided in the final order that it was without prejudice to the Plymouth Coal Co. 's right to get dissolution or modification of the in junction.
CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
Missouri vs Lewis (1)).
333 limited ground upon which the High Court bases its decision, these appeals are bound to fail.
Co. vs Illinois, Prof. Weaver says at page 404 of his compendious book on Constitutional Law under the heading of ' DISCRIMINATION IN THE ADMiNiSTRATION OF THE LAWS ': "Discrimination may exist in the administration of the laws and it is the purpose of the equal protection clause to secure all the inhabitants of the state from intentional and arbitrary discrimination arising in their improper or preju diced execution, as well as by the express terms of the law itself.
It forbids (1) ; at p. 501.
Under article 12 of the 356 Constitution, even a local authority comes within the defi nition of "the State" and section 13 provides in sub clause (3) that " 'law ' includes any ordinance, order, bye law, rule, regulation, notification. . " Therefore any ordinance or notification issued by a local authority acting under the powers conferred on it by a statute might be challenged as discriminatory and if this is permitted, the work of administration might be paralysed altogether.
Agent for Habib Mohammad (Intervener): Rajinder Narain.
" A difficulty was suggested and discussed in the course of the arguments in case article 14 was to receive a very wide interpretation.
An individual case of a crime committed with gruesome atrocity or committed upon an eminent person may shock our moral sense to a greater extent but, on ultimate analysis and in the absence of special circumstances such as I have mentioned, it is not basically different from another individual case of a simi lar crime although committed with less vehemence or on a less eminent person.
A rule of procedure laid down by law comes as much within the purview of article 14 as any rule of substantive law and it is necessary that all litigants, who are similar ly situated, are able to avail themselves of the same proce dural rights for relief and for defence with like protection and without discrimination(2).
It is urged by the learned AttorneyGeneral that this selection of cases must also be made in the light of the object of the Act as expressed in its preamble, that is to say, the State government can only select those cases which, in their view, require speedier trial.
Agent for the State of Hyderabad and for the State of Mysore (Interveners):P. A. Mehta.
The law of the Constitution is not only for those who govern or for the theorist, but also for the bulk of the people, for the common man for whose benefit and pride and safeguard the Constitution has also been written.
Article 14 provides: "The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India." Then follow articles 15 and 16, the former prohibiting discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth, or any of them and the latter providing for equality of opportunity in matters of public employment.
Willis says at page 586 : "Is it proper classification to put in one class those who get the consent of a board or of an official and into another class those who do not, where no standard is set up to control the action of the board or official ? Some cases answer.
In Tarrance vs Florida ; the administration of a State law and not the law itself was challenged and the court said: 'Such an actual discrimination is as potential in creating a denial of equality of rights as a discrimina tion made by law. '" There is only one other point that I would like to deal with.
But what then becomes of the classification? and who are to be the judges of the reasonableness and the substantiality or otherwise of the discrimination? And, much more important, whose stand ards of reasonableness are to be applied? the judges '? the government 's? or that of the mythical ordi nary reasonable man of law which is no single man but a composite of many men whose reasonableness can be measured and gauged even though he can neither be seen nor heard nor felt? With the utmost respect I cannot see how these vague generalisations serve to clarify the position.
N.C. Chatterjee (section K. Kapur, with him) for the respond ent in Case No. 298. 1952.
There a statute of Oklahoma provided for the sterilization of cer tain habitual criminals, who were convicted two or more times in any State, of felonies involving moral turpitudell.
His contention is that offences may be grouped into two classes, namely, those that require speedier trial, that is speedier than what is provided for in the Code and those that do not require a speedier trial.
" It has not, however, been urged before us that the addition of these extra words has made any substantial difference in its practical application.
It has laid down no yard stick or measure for the grouping either of persons or of cases or of offences by which measure these groups could be distinguished from those who are outside the purview of the Special Act.
Ward vs Flood (1)].
Under section a50 of the Criminal Procedure Code, when a case after being heard in part goes for disposal before another Magistrate, the accused has the right to demand, before the second Magistrate commences the proceedings, that the witnesses already examined should be re examined and re heard.
A rule was issued on this application also.
" Before considering whether section 5(1) infringes, to any and what extent, the constitutional prohibition under article 14, it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
Section 5 (1) of the Act runs as follows": " A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases, as the State Government may, by general or special order in writing, direct".
The provision for the speedier trial of certain offences is, therefore, the object of the Act.
Section 4 provides for appointment of a Special Judge to preside over a Special Court and it mentions the qualifications which a Special Judge should possess.
But, because of the Constitution, there are limits beyond which they cannot go and even though it fails to the lot of judges to determine where those limits lie, the basis of their decision cannot be whether the Court thinks the law is for the benefit of the people or not.
F.N. Balsara (2).
What, after all, is classification? It is merely a systematic arrangement of things into groups or classes, usually in accordance with some definite scheme.
(2) 299 That is to say, the ordinance was what the Privy Council called a "colourable legislative expedient" which, under the "guise or pretence" of doing what is constitutionally per missible, "in substance and purpose seeks to effect discrim ination": Morgan Proprietary Ltd. vs Deputy Commissioner of Taxation for New South Wales (1).
(2) ; 293 offences as there can, of course, be no trial of offences in the abstract) and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature; for, a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion, which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
"Such a classification for such a purpose would be arbitrary and a piece of legislative despotism"(1): (1) Vide Gulf Colorado & Santa Fe Railway Co. vs W.H. Ellis; , 41 314 Speedier trial of offences may be the reason and motive for the legislation but it does not amount either to a classification of offences or of cases.
One who assails a classification must carry the burden of showing that it does not rest upon any reasonable basis.
