The learned counsel for the State contends that we should not reappreciate the facts, but, with respects, it seems to us that the High Court, while dealing with the evidence, has not kept in mind the principles which we have mentioned above.
The learned counsel for the appellants, Mr. Chari, says that no contempt of court has been established because a Court is entitled not to act on an application which is not accompanied by an affidavit properly sworn to or a certified copy of the order He urges that the Nyaya Panchayats exercised judicial powers and, even if the Panchas erred in not staying proceedings, before finding them guilty of contempt of court it should be definitely proved that the order was passed deliberately to by pass the order of the High Court.
It has been admitted by the High Court which has stayed proceedings also in this case.
In order to justify committal for breach of a prohibitive order it is not necessary that the order should have been served upon the party against whom it has been granted, if it be proved that he had notice of the order aliunde, as by telegram, or newspaper report, or otherwise, and knew that it was intended to be enforced, or if he consented to the order, or if he was present in Court when the order Was pronounced, or *hen the motion was made, although he left before the order was pronounced.
passed by the High Court.
O. P. Rana, for respondent No. 1.
A. section R. Chari, M. K. Ramamurthi, Vineet Kumar and Shyamala Pappu, for the appellants.
We had also told him to get the affidavit verified before some Tehsil authority.
The application of Mahabir, referred to in the order, reads thus: 118 .lm15
It was no part of the duty of the Panchas to enquire from the S.D.M. about the filing of the application before him.
At any rate, he has apparently no jurisdiction to stay proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayats when no Proceeding is pending before him.
The High Court held : "There was no reasonable ground for the Panchas to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat, nor is there any thing in the order sheet to show that the Panchas did not believe the contents of the application, and affidavit of Mahabir.
This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the Allahabad High Court adjudging the five appellants guilty of contempt of court and sentencing each of them to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000/ and further ordering that in case of default they shall undergo simple imprisonment for two weeks.
