The reference was made by the Government on the 4th October, 1962.
Appeal by special leave from the Award, dated January 11, 13, 1964 of the Industrial Tribunal, Orissa, Cuttack in Industrial Dispute Case No. 8 of 1962.
Learned counsel for the Company urged before us that the principle of fixation of wages on the basis of Comparison in the region laid down in the French Motor Car Co. 's case(1) is not rigid and, it is not.
In the case of even the lowest paid clerical staff, to whom dearness allowance is separately payable, the bonus is only calculated on the basis of basic wages, and the dearness allowance is ignored.
Learned counsel appearing for the Company drew our attention to the fact that the revised wages are payable with effect from 13th December, 1962 and, by this time, a period of 5 to 6 years has elapsed, so that the Company will have to pay arrears of wages for this long period.
vs Workmen(1) where it was held : "It is now well settled that the principle of industry cum region has to be applied by an Industrial Court, when it proceeds to consider questions like wage structure, dearness allowance and similar conditions of service.
The only 'other point argued before us in respect of wages by learned counsel was that casual workers should also be paid minimum wages on the same basis as the permanent workers for whom the minimum wage was fixed by the Tribunal which is being varied by us by increasing it to a total wage packet of Rs. 95.
That reference under section 10(2) of the Act, however, failed due to some technical defect.
The Titaghur Paper Mill No. 3 started production only in April, 1960, while the J.K. Paper Mills at Rayagada started production in 1961 62.
The main point urged by learned counsel was that, in giving the decision with regard to bonus for this year, the Tribunal committed the error of not making calculation of surplus available on the basis of the Full Bench Formula approved by this Court in the case of The Associated Cement Companies Ltd., Dwarka Cement Works, Dwarka vs Its Workmen and Another.(x) The Company is paying profit bonus equivalent to three months ' basic wage of each workman.
The demand made by the workmen was for bonus equivalent to six months ' wages, and the argument was that, if the Tribunal had worked out the surplus available on the correct basis, that surplus would have certainly justified grant of profit bonus at the rate of six months ' wages.
Appeal No. 390 of 1966.
It is for this figure of Rs. 84 that we think the Tribunal should have substituted the figure of Rs. 95.
In fact, learned counsel was unable to urge that this finding of fact suffered from any error at all.
There is some clerical staff which does not get any dearness allowance at all and it is only in those cases.
Therefore, the decision by the Tribunal not to equate the casual workers with the permanent employees.
Thus, the total minimum wage packet which a workman should be entitled to receive was fixed by the Tribunal at Rs. 84.
677 Tribunal under section 10(2) of the Act on the basis of an agreed enumeration of subjects of dispute drawn up by the workmen and the Company together.
TIffs is a finding of fact recorded by the Tribunal and nothing has been shown by learned counsel for the Company which would induce us to interfere with this finding of fact.
There is only an exception in the case of Indian Aluminium Company.
This plea of the workmen was rejected by the Tribunal primarily on the ground that the other break up urged on behalf of the Company was the break up which had been accepted by mutual consent between the workmen and the Company in an earlier settlement which had been arrived at in the year 1959.
" On the basis of this finding of fact, the Tribunal held that, if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which, in its opinion, would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case, then, a revision was really necessary.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Bhargava, J.
The previous agreement of 1959 was binding only up to 12th December, 1962 and we think that the Tribunal 213 Sup.
The idea of fixing such wage in the light of cost of living at a particular juncture of time and of neutralising the rising prices of essential commodities by linking up scales of minimum wages with the cost of living index cannot, therefore, be said to be alien to the concept of a minimum wage.
The argument is incorrect.
The reference was ultimately made by the Government under section 10(1) of the Act, but it was made in the same form in which the parties had agreed to.
Further, the Tribunal was expected to decide the dispute only as referred to it and, at the time of reference at least, there was not and there could possibly not be a claim for higher bonus on the basis of the application of the Full Bench Formula.
Learned counsel was, however, unable to show to us that this Court or any other Tribunal has ever laid down the principle that, where the dearness allowance forms a part of the consolidated wage fixed, there should be such linking so as to bring in continuous variation of the wage, depending on the variation in the Price Index.
By the expression "other industries in the region" the Tribunal was obviously referring to these concerns.
" In the light of these views which were brought to the notice of the Tribunal, the Tribunal proceeded to consider the minimum wages paid by three Collieries, Orient Colliery, Ibe Colliery and Himgiri Rampur Colliery, the Rourkela Steel Plant, the Cement Factory at Rajgangpur and the Indian Aluminum Company, Hirakud which the Tribunal found were situated not very far away from the place where the Company had its factory.
" In the present case, the Tribunal chose the course of leaving it to the workmen to ask for increase in minimum wage on any further rise in Price Index and did not consider it advisable to link the wages with it.
In such cases, the calculation is still on the basis of basic wage, because it cannot be assumed that their wage is a consolidated wage consisting of the two 678 elements of basic wage and dearness allowance lumped together.
Initially, there was an attempt that the dispute be referred to the Industrial (1)[1959] S.C.R. 925.
