I. N. Shroff, for respondent No. 1.
(4) (5) (May 29, We are here concerned with a choice between section 60 and section 61, which lay down two broad categories.
(3)This section shall have effect subject to the other provisions of this Part relating to the apportionment of liabilities in respect of loans, guarantees and other financial obligations; and bank balances and securities shall, notwithstanding that they partake of the nature of contractual rights, be dealt with under those provisions.
921 As observed by Gajendragadkar, J., as he then was, in Union of lndia vs H. C. Goel(1), "the enquiry report along with the evidence recorded constitute the material on which the Government has ultimately to act.
(3) [1953] 2Q.B.482,499.
In Owner or section section Raphael v, Brandy(1) the head note reads A stoker on board a merchant ship, who was en titled to wages from the shipowners, and also as a stoker in the Royal Naval Reserve to 6 pound a year as a retainer, was injured by an accident on the ship which disabled him from continuing to serve in the Royal Naval Reserve Held, that the stoker was entitled under the Workmen 's Compensation Act, 1906, to compensation from the shipowners not only in respect of his wages but also of the retainer, which must be taken into account as earnings under a concurrent contract of service.
Authority is not lacking even in England where a special relationship exists between the Crown and its public servants.
Mahajan, C.J., speaking for the Court, observed at p. 802: "As regard torts of its servants in exercise of sovereign powers, the company was not, and the Crown in (1) ; 923 India was not, liable unless the act has been ordered or ratified by it.
Where, immediately before the appointed day, the State of Bombay is subject to any liability in respect of any actionable wrong other than breach of contract, that liability shall, (a) if the cause of action arose wholly within the territories which, as from that day, are the territories of the State of Maharashtra or the State of Gujarat, be a liability of that State; and (b) in any other case, be initially a liability of the State of Maharashtra but subject to such financial adjustment as may be agreed upon between the States of Maharashtra and Gujarat or, in default of such agreement, as the Central Government may by order direct." The learned counsel for the State of Maharashtra contends that the liability to pay arrears of pay was not a liability arising out of a contract but was a liability in respect of an actionable wrong other than a. breach of contract.
(2) ; 179.
On March 7, 1954, he was served with a charge sheet.
I agree with Fletcher Moulton L.J. that this is almost a typical case of concurrent contracts, because the workman was being paid wages for his services on board a merchant ship, and at the same time he was earning his 6 pound a year by virtue of his engagement with the Crown; and he was giving an equivalent for that, (1) 924 because he was keeping himself fit and doing the work which he stipulated to do.
On March 6, 1953, the plaintiff was appointed senior jailor, Surendranagar District Jail.
