By section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure the High Court is invested with power to call for the record of any case decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereo, if such subordinate court appears (a) to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law, or (b) to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested, or (c) to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity, and to make such order in the case as it thinks fit.
A consent decree, accord ing to the decisions of this Court, does not operate as res judicata, because a consent decree is merely the record of a contract between the parties to a suit, to which is superadded the seal of the Court.
R. P. Kapur, for respondents Nos. 2 and 3.
The order passed by the High Court is set aside and the Trial Court is directed to proceed and dispose of the suit.
The Court gave no finding expressly or by implication on the issue of res judicata or any other issue.
A revision application against that order was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Gujarat.
Exercise of the power is broadly subject to three important conditions (1) that the decision is of a Court subordinate to the High Court; (2) that there is a case which has been decided by the subordinate Court; and (3) that the subordinate Court has exercised jurisdiction not vested in it by law or to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested, or to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.
Appeal No. 1940 of 1967.
The learned Judge was then requested to frame three additional issues in view of the amended pleadings : the issues were: 1.
The expression "case" is not limited in its import to the entirety of the matter in dispute in an action.
CI/69 17 438 1955 and further confirmed by document dated December 1, 1960 is not a lease? 12.
By insistence upon procedural wrangling in a com paratively simple suit pending in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad the parties have effectively prevented all progress in the suit during the last six years.
442 This Court observed in Major section section Khanna vs Brig.
The objection was raised as 439 an attempt to reopen the previous decision given by the Trial Judge refusing to try issues Nos. 11, 12 & 13 as preliminary issues.
F. J. Dillon(1) that the expression "case" is a word of comprehensive import : it includes a civil proceeding and is not restricted by anything contained in section 115 of the Code to the entirety of the proceeding in a civil court.
Again it was for the Trial Court in the first instance to decide that question and there after the High Court could, if the matter were brought before it by way of appeal or in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction, have decided that question.
By an order dated December 1, 1960 the suit was disposed of as compromised.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Shah, J.
The learned Judge observed that the issues were not purely of law, that in any event the case or any part thereof was not likely to be disposed of on these issues, and that ordinarily in "appealable cases" the Court should, as far as possible, decide all the issues together and that piecemeal trial might result in protracting the litigation.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated April 17, 27, 1967 of the Gujarat High Court in Civil Revision Application 328 of 1967.
Three sets of written statements were filed against the claim made by Filmistan, but no reference need be made thereto, since at this stage in deciding appeal the merits of the pleas raised by the defendants are not relevant.
being recorded, counsel for the defendants asked in cross examination the question whether the "agreement between the plaintiff and defendant Nos. 5 and 6 was a commercial transaction and was not a lease ?" The question was objected to by counsel appearing for Filmistan.
We recommend that the form of the issues Nos. 11, 12 and 13 will be rectified by the learned Trial Judge.
The revision petition was entertained and elaborate arguments were advanced at the Bar.
section T. Desai and I. N. Shroff for the appellants.
