The Tribunal 's order is very brief : it gives no reasons in support of the conclusions.
Hence by its order dated April 7, 1970, this Court directed the tribunal to submit a further statement.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered 'by] Hegde, J.
Section 10(2) (xi) of the Indian Income tax Act, 1922, as in force at the relevant time provided : "(2) Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances, namely : (xi) When the assessee 's accounts in respect of any part of his business, profession or vocation are not kept on the cash basis, such sum, in respect of bad and doubtful debts, due to the assessee in 807SupCI/71 418 respect of that part of his business, profession or vocation, and in the case of an assessee carrying on a banking or money lending business, such sum in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business as the Income tax Officer may estimate to be irrecoverable but not exceeding the amount actually written off as irrecoverable in the books of the assessee, Provided. . . . . " Clause (xi) was in two parts.
The order of the Court was delivered by] Shah, J.
The statement submitted by the Tribunal is also inadequate.
A bad and doubtful debt due to an assessee in respect of banking or money lending business is allowable under section 10(2) (xi) if it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business.
Appeal No. 949 of 1966.
In the assessment of income tax of the appellant for the assessment year 1952 53, relevant to the account year Samvat 2008, the assessee claimed a deduction of Rs. 2,68,385/ as bad debt due from the Bombay firm, incurred by that firm in the course of business transactions.
The statement of the case does not analyse the evidence and throws no light upon the two branches of the argument raised before the Tribunal and which, in our view, arose out of the question on which they were required to submit a statement of the case.
Counsel for the Revenue, however, contended that there are three important circumstances which appear from the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Income tax Officer from which it may be inferred that the advances made by the appellants to the Bombay firm were not in respect of loans in the ordinary course of the business of the appellants, nor in respect of their other business.
