Disposal of the fruits of crime requires the finding of a person ready to receive them and the shortness of time, the nature of the property which is disposed of, that is to say, its quantity and its character determine whether the person who had the goods in his possession received them from another or was himself the thief or the dacoit.
This presumption has been drawn and in our opinion rightly in this case The conviction was therefore correct in 'all the circumstances of the case.
721 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 24, 1967 of the High Court of Mysore in Criminal Appeal .No.
N: Criminal Appeal No. 87 of 1967.
But no injury beyond one appears to have been caused.
Immediately afterwards a number of searches were made and the goods were found with various persons who were prosecuted as offenders and they have been presumed to be involved in the dacoity itself.
The presumption is stronger when the discovery of the fruits of crime is made immediately after the crime is.
As regards the sentence, the offence no doubt was serious.
29 of 1965.
The houses of 20 persons were searched and large quantities of the stolen goods were found in their houses.
There is then no question of presumption.
The accused were convicted on the sole evidence of having in their possession pieces of cloth which were later identified to belong to the traders.
The reason is obvious.
The police investigated the case and arrested the 20 persons who were accused in the case as being the culprits involved in this incident.
The cartmen halted after the market was over on the way for food.
A. section R. Chari and R. V. Pillai, for the appellants.
It is impossible to think that these 20 persons were merely receivers of stolen property from some other 20 persons who were the dacoits.
committed.
It has been stated on more than one occasion that if the gap of time is, too large, the presumption that the accused was concerned with the crime itself gets weakened.
Shyamala Pappu and section P. Nayar, for the respondent.
Thereafter six carts left for Mudgal at about 10 p.m.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah, C.J.
It was a dark night and the assailants were not identified.
The sentence of fine will stand.
(It is, impossible to think that within the short time available, these goods could have been easily disposed of to receivers of stolen property or could be placed in the custody of friends till such time as the original offenders could take them away.) The time gap in some cases is as short as two days and in some others it is not more than five days.
In two cases only the time gap is about 19 days.
