Sd/ section P. Chaliha, 30 4 66.
(b) of section 147.
To Question No. 8 in the report which reads "Whether the, Commissioner is satisfied that it is a case for the I issue of notice under section 148", he just noted the word "yes" and affixed his signatures thereunder.
The Respondent No. 2 shall pay the costs of the appellant both in this Court and in the High Court.
No. A/P/ Misc.(5)D.I./63 64/5623 dated 13 8 65, forwarded to this office under C.I.T. Bihar and Orissa, Patna 's letter No. Inv.
Unless the requirements of clause (a) or (b) of section 147 are satisfied, the Income tax Officer has no jurisdiction to issue a notice under section 148.
Sd/ section P. Chaliha Income Tax Officer, Ward A, Muzaffarpur.
Further the report submitted by him under section 151(2) does not mention any reason for coming to the conclusion that it is a fit case for the issue of a notice under section 148.
Further his report mentions : "Hence proper investigation regarding these loans is necessary In other words his conclusion is that there is a case for investigating as to the truth of the alleged transactions.
Appeal No. 1311 of 1967.
section C. Manchanda, R. N. Sachthey and B. D. Sharma, for the respondent.
Name of District Ward of Circle A Ward, Muzaffarpur G. I.R. No. 303 C. 1.1.
13 5 66 Commissioner of Income tax, Bihar and Orissa, Patna 9.
Section 151 (2) of the Act reads "No notice shall be issued under Section 148 after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless the Commissioner is satisfied on the reasons recorded by the Income tax Officer that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice." Section 148 prescribes : "(1) Before making the assessment, re assessment or re computation under Section 147, the Income tax Officer shall serve on the assesee a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a notice under sub section (2) of Section 139 and 445 the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under that sub section.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner, it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee 's omission to disclose fully and truly all material ' facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question, income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year; nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession, had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
(2) The Income tax Officer shall, before issuing any notice under this section, record his reasons for doing so.
