The Bombay High Court pointed out in Emperor vs Pioneer Clay & In dustrial Works(1) that the decision in Park vs Lawton(2) is based on section 36 (it is a mistake for section 26) of the English Act, which in its scheme and terms is entirely different from the section with which they (the Bombay High Court) were concerned, and that the section in the English Act is a composite one which lays down various requirements which are to be complied with by the company under its first four sub clauses and sub cl.
But section 134 lays down that after balance sheet and profit and loss account or the income and expenditure account, as the case may be, have been laid before the company at the general meeting three copies thereof shall be filed with the registrar, and a failure to do so is made punishable under sub section (4) of that section.
Under section 131 the laying of a balance sheet and profit and loss account before the company in the general meeting is made obligatory.
In interpreting a penal provision it is not permissible to give an extended meaning to the plain words of the section on the ground that a principle recognised in respect of certain other provisions of law requires that this section should be interpreted is the same way.
But under section 134 of the 1913 Act the obligation to send a copy of the balance sheet and profit and loss account is dependent completely on its being laid be, fore a general meeting.
Both under section 134 of the Old Companies Act and Section 220 of the Act, the laying of the balance sheet and the profit and loss account before an annual general meeting is a condition precedent to the requirement that copies of such documents so laid should be filed before the Registrar.
Under section 133 the failure to comply with section 131 is made punishable.
N: Criminal Appeal No. 34 of 1970.
Appeal by certificate under Article 134(1)(c) of the Constitution of India from the judgment and order dated 18 3 1969 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Criminal Revision Case No. 360 of 1968.
If no general body meeting is held, the persons concerned cannot be said to have committed a default in complying with those provisions.
What he says is, I may have committed an offence, but the offence that I have committed is not the one with which I am charged.
The Full Bench speaking through Jaganmohan Reddy, C.J., as our learned brother then was, held that if no balance sheet is laid before a general body, there can be no question of that balance sheet not being adopted nor of complying with the requirements of section 220 and though wilful omission to call a general body meeting and to lay the balance sheet and profit and loss account before it may expose the person responsible to punishment under other provisions of the Act, it certainly does not make him liable under the provisions of section 134(4) of the Companies Act, 1913 or section 220 of the .
(9) [1934 35] 39 Calcutta Weekly Notes 1152.
We say nothing about section 32 about which this Court has already laid down the law.
It also provides that the company shall forthwith file with the registrar a copy of the list and summary, and any default hi complying with the requirements of the section is made punishable.
If no general body meeting is held, it is obvious that no copies of the balance sheet (1) (3) A.I.R. 1969 Orissa 234.
This was what the learned Solicitor General was fair enough to point out with regard to the difficulty of working out the daily penalty under section 162 after the thirtieth day mentioned in section 220(1) of the 1.956 Act.
(6) 1961 K.L.J. 490.
" In this state of difference of opinion among the various High Courts and the absence of a decision of this Court on section 134 this appeal has been filed.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by ALAGIRISWAMI, J.
(7) I.L.R. 1918 Calcutta 486.
