These services are material services.
(h) To set up museums or show rooms, to exhibit the products of India and other countries and to participate in such activities.
Sub clause (b) is only ancillary to (a).
for the benefit of businessmen, big or small and whether or not they are members of the Federation.
No divi (1) [1972] 2 S.C.R. 353.
An examination of the activities of the Federation showed that the Federation carried on systematic activities to assist its members and other businessmen and industrialists and even to non members as for instance in giving them the right to subscribe to their bulletin; in taking up their cases and solving their difficulties and in obtaining concessions and facilities from them from the Government.
Any premises where services are rendered to customers fall within the definition of a "shop".
(f)To provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising, in the course of trade, industry or transport or other business matters, and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
Mr. Rao, learned Counsel for the appellants strongly relies on the aforesaid decision.
Jagnmohan Reddy J. speaking for the Court,.
The Federation then moved the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution for bringing up and quashing the order, dated February 4, 1964 passed by the Chief Inspector (Appellant 2).
As regards the preliminary objection, it is true that before the High Court, it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
They further prayed for a writ of Prohibition directing the Magistrate not to proceed with the complaint.
The entire case law was surveyed.
Mr. Pai, learned Counsel for the Federation has firstly raised a preliminary objection that before the High Court, at no stage, it was urged on behalf of the Appellants that the activity of the Federation carried on in the premises was a business or trade.
of Incorporated Council of Law Reporting for England and Wales, (1) the Queens Bench was considering the interpretation of the expression "trade or business" in section 11 of the English Customs and Inland Revenue Act 1885 with reference to the activity of the Incorporated Council of Law Reporting for England and Wales.
For the application of the Act to the Federation, it is immaterial whether its activities bring its premises within the ambit of a "shop" or a "commercial establishment '.
(m) To help in the Organisation of Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations in different commercial centres of the country.
The case under the Income tax Act wherein the main object of the organization was charitable, were also considered and found of little assistance.
posed the question for decision thus : "In our view the linch pin of the definition of 'industry ' is to ascertain the systematic activity which the organization is discharging namely, whether it partakes the nature of a business or trade; or is an undertaking or manufacture or calling of employers".
This contention was also rejected with the observation that since the earlier part of the definition refers to "some particular business or trade carried on in a premises" the words "any work in connection with or incidental or necessary thereto" obviously refer to such particular business or trade and not to trade or business in general '.
(b) To encourage friendly feeling end unanimity among business community and association on all subjects connected with the common good of Indian business.
