The learned counsel for the appellant relied upon the decision in Bihar State Board Religious Trust, Patna vs Mahant Sri Biseshwar Das and drew our attention to the following observations therein: "Thus, the mere fact of the public having been freely admitted to that temple cannot mean that courts should readily infer therefrom dedication to the public.
From exhibit 35, the first Varaspatra of February 28, 1869, one gets a full picture of the working of the Sansthan: "The service and Bhajan etc.
The last deed of gift is exhibit 38 and the donee is "Shri Vasudev Buwa Guru Balkrishna Buwa" described as the worshipper carrying on the "Vahiwat of Shri Vithal Rekhmai Sansthan".
(6) Collection of subscriptions were made from house to house by taking Maharaj and also for 'Gulal ' ceremony.
This Sanad was granted by the then British Government during the reign of Queen Victoria in favour of "Devasthan Shri Vithal Rukhamai '.
You know the Vahiwet of the Sansthan as is going on.
This Court further held: "When once it is understood that the true beneficiaries of religious endowments are not the idols but the worshippers, and that the purpose of the endowment is the maintenance of that worship for the benefit of worshippers, the question whether an endowment is private or public presents no difficulty.
Even some of the tests laid down by this Court may, in a given case, be sufficient to enable the court to come to a conclusion about the character of the trust.
531 (8) Treating of the Sansthan by those who are connected with the management as intended for user by the public without restriction.
In the gift deed exhibit 37 executed by three businessmen of Amalner there are recitals to the similar effect: "When we were joint, the said field was given as a gift to you for the service of the sansthan, viz., Shri Vithal Rukhmai Sansthan, Amalner and was given in your possession.
(5) Gifts of land by members of the public from the Taluka and outside it in favour of the temple or of the Sansthan for the purpose of maintenance of the worship.
When the origin of an endowment is obscure and no direct oral evidence is available, the Court will have to resolve the controversy about the character of the trust on documentary evidence, if any, the object and purpose for which the trust was created, the consistent manner in which the property has been dealt with or managed by those in charge, the manner in which the property has long been used by the public, the contribution of the public, to all intents and purposes, as a matter of right without the least interference or restriction from the temple authorities, to foster maintenance of the worship the accretion to the trust property by way of grants from the state of gifts from outsiders inconsistent with the private nature of the trust, the nature of devolution of the property, are all important elements in determination of the question whether a property is a private or a public religious endowment.
The case went against the Board in the above decision in the absence of "evidence of a reliable kind" of public user as "evidence of dedication".
The contention of Ramkrishna Deshpande in his evidence, therefore, is without any force.
Hence the gift deed of the said field, which had remained unexecuted, has been executed today. " The said gift deed was in favour of Archak (worshipper) Vasudeobuwa Guru Balkrishnabuwa.
While each case of endowment as to its character depends on the particular history.
(9) Absence of any evidence in the long history of the Sansthan to warrant that it had any appearance of, or that it was ever treated as a private property.
He stays there for about 4 months.
(3) There has been no evidence of any hindrance or restriction in the matter of continuous worship by the public extending over a long period.
