Mr. S.T. Desai has raised the argument, in the case of Jyoti Ltd., Baroda, that the Tribunal laboured under a misconception that 86 the sickness benefit would be lost for the first two days of sickness under the first proviso to section 49 of the Act, that the Tribunal should not, in any view of the matter, have given the benefit of 7 days sick leave, and that the workmen did not deserve anything more than sickness benefit for the first two days also.
It has been argued by the learned counsel for the appel lants that as the benefits of sections 47 and 49 of the Act are already admissible to workmen in Baroda with effect from December 14, 1969, and they are quite adequate, the Tribunal committed an error 83 of law in granting the additional benefits mentioned above.
84 Insurance Act states that a person qualified to claim sickness benefit shall not be entitled to the benefit for an initial waiting period of two days except in the case of a spell of sickness following at an interval of not more than fifteen days, the spell of sickness for which benefit was last paid.
Section 61 of the Act cannot thus be said to be applicable for the simple reason that the benefits granted by the Tribunal are not similar to those admissible under the Act.
Learned coun sel for the appellants have invited our attention to the case between the Textile Labour Association and the Ahmeda bad Millowner 's Association where the demand for sick leave was refused but, as the Tribunal has pointed out, the demand there was for a month 's leave every year in addition to 15 days casual leave and pay in lieu of privilege leave.
It has not been disputed before us that the "region cure industry" basis is suitable in cases like the present for examining any controversy regarding the work man 's demand for additional benefits, but it has been argued by the learned counsel for the appellants that the award of the benefit of sick leave to the workers of the two Compa nies could not be justified on that basis.
of the learned counsel for the parties, and will be disposed by a common judgment.
The benefit of sick leave was therefore lost when the Act was made applicable to the region from December 14, 1969.
(II) No. 158 of 1974 published in the Gujarat Govt.
As has been stated, the Act came into force in the region concerned on December 14, 1969, and it has not been disputed before us that till then it was the practice in the glass industries to grant sick leave with wages for periods varying from 6 to 10 days.
That was obviously under a mistaken impression of the sickness benefit which the Act allowed for, as has been shown, it does not deal with all aspects of the demand for sickness benefit and does not, at any rate, provide for the grant of leave on full emoluments during the period of the workman 's physical incapacity to earn his normal wages because of his sickness.
Appeal No. 1951 of 1975 is directed against the award of the Industrial Tribunal Gujarat, dated September 24, 1975, in the dispute between the Alembic Glass Industries Ltd., Baroda, and its workmen, while appeal No. 631 of 1976 arises out of the Tribunal 's award in the dispute between Jyoti Limited, Baroda, and its workmen.
Appeal No. 1951 of 1975.
The argument is however futile because, as has been stated, the Tribunal has cor rectly examined the controversy and given adequate reasons for allowing the benefit of 7 days sick leave in the manner set out in the award.
