No element of punishment at all is involved in preparing either a provisional or a final seniority list.
Narayana Nettar, for Respondents 4 and 5. 3 1338SCI/76 828 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BEG, J.
Learned Counsel for the Central Government had cited before us Union of India vs
In this case, no mala fides are alleged.
The judgment under appeal after certificate of fitness of the case under Article 133(1)(c) of the Constitu tion of India, is very short as it purports to follow the ratio decidendi of Union of India vs
(Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 14 6 1967 of the Mysore High Court in Writ Petition No. 440/65).
G.R. Prabhavalkar & Ors.
As no such opportunity was furnished to the respondents with regard to these two matters (1) 202.
Civil Appeal No. 1744 of 1968.
In P.K. Roy 's case (supra), the opportunity afforded was to be given before the publication of the final list.
The High Court of Mysore seems to have been under the misapprehension that the case now before us is also governed by what was held by this Court in Shankariah 's case (supra) with reference to an entirely different and provisional list of Forest Officers.
The judgment of the Mysore High Court was, in our opinion, based on an apparent misun derstanding of Shankariah 's case (supra) and on a failure to appreciate the facts of the case of the petitioner respondent which is now before us.
The Central Government, under Sec. 115 of the Act, has to determine the princi ples governing equation of posts and prepare a common gradation list by integration of services.
P.K. Roy & Ors.
It is not within the province of the Courts to lay down what are in the principles to be adopted for purposes of equation.
That falls within the purview of the statute concerned and the authorities charged with such duty.
In order to establish the invalidity of the final list on some such grounds of invalidity, those grounds have to be shown to exist.
We find no such grounds in the ease before us.
" We find that, as was the case of the petitioner in Prabhavalkar 's case (supra), the petitioner respondent Dr. R.D. Nanjiah, and others similarly placed respondents before us have been unable to make out, in their petitions, any grounds for interference with the final list.
