80 section 125 requires, as a sine qua non for its application, neglect by husband or father.
The whole scheme of section 127(3) (b) is manifestly to recognise the substitute maintenance arrangement by lump sum payment organised by the custom of the community or the personal law of the parties.
The consent decree of 1962 resolved all disputes and settled all claims then available But here is a new statutory right created as a projection of public policy by the Code of 1973, which could not have been in the contemplation of the parties when in 1962, they entered into a contract to adjust their then mutual rights.
M. N. Shroff for Respondent No. 2.
No settlement of claims which does not have the special statutory right of the divorcee under section 125 can operate to negate that claim.
If the first payment by way of mehar or ordained by custom has a reasonable relation to the object and is a capitalised substitute for the order under section 125 not mathematically but fairly then section 127(3) (b) subserves the goal and relieves; the obligor, not pro tanto but wholly.
N: Criminal Appeal No. 332 of 1977.
From this coign of vantage we must view the printed text of the particular Code.
The magistrate 's order proceeds on neglect to maintain; the sessions judge has spoken nothing to the contrary; and The High Court has not spoken at all.
He first argued that section 125(4) would apply in the absence of proof that the lady was not living separately by mutual consent.
79 However, Shri Sanghi, appearing for the respondent, sought sustain the order in his favour on three grounds They arc of pubic importance since the affected party in such a fact situation is the neglected divorcee.
We see hardly any force in this plea.
Where the husband, by customary payment at the time of divorce, has adequately provided for the divorce, a subsequent series of recurrent does is 81 contra indicated and the husband liberated.
s 125.
This order was challenged before the sessions Judge by the aggrieved husband, who on a strange view of the law that the court, under section 125, had no jurisdication to consider whether the applicant was a wife, dismissed the petition in allowance of the appeal.
If law has nexus with life this argument is still born.
We hold that every divorce otherwise eligible, is entitled to the benefit of maintenance allowance and the dissolution of the marriage makes no difference to this right under the current Code.
77 M. C. Bhandare, A. N. Karkhanis, Miss Malini Panduval and Mrs. section Bhandare for the Appellant.
Obviously, he has no case of non neglect.
The payment of illusory amounts by way of customary or personal law requirement will be considered in the reduction of maintenance rate but cannot annihilate that rate unless it is a reasonable substitute.
The purpose of the payment 'under any customary or personal law ' must be to obviate destitution of the divorcee and to provide her with wherewithal to maintain herself.
So, section 125 and sister clauses must receive a compassionate expansion of sense that the words used permit.
or has obtained a divorce from, her husband and has not remarried.
The Constitution is a pervasive omnipresence brooding over the meaning and transforming the values of every measure.
This social perspective granted, the resolution of all the disputes projected is easy.
So the basic condition of neglect to maintain is satisfied.
a simple reading of the sub section and it is curious how this innovative and sensitive provision with a benignant disposition towards destitute divorcees has been overlooked by all the courts below.
Payment of mehar money, as a customary discharge, is within the cognisance of that provision.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by A Prefatory statement KRISHNA IYER, J.
This is obviously beyond dispute or.
The third contention is apparently based upon contractual arrangement in the consent decree read with section 127(3) (b) which reads: C "(b) the woman has been divorced by her husband and that she has received, whether before or after the date of the said order, the whole of the sum which, under any customary or personal law applicable to the parties, was payable on such divorce cancel such order, (i) in the case where such sum was paid before such order, from the date on which such order was made.
But what was the amount of mehar ? Rs. 5000/ , interest from which could not keep the woman 's body and soul together for a day, even in that city where 40% of the population are reported to live on pavements, unless she was ready to sell her body and give up her soul ? The point must be clearly under stood that the scheme of the complex of provisions in Chapter IX has a social purpose.
For instance, it recited that this respondent had transferred the suit premises, namely, a flat in Bombay, to the appellant and also the shares of the Cooperative Housing Society which built the flat concerned.
Moreover, the husband has not examined himself to prove that he has been giving allowances to the divorced wife.
The next submission is that the absence of mutual consent to live separately must be made out if the hurdle of section 125(4) is to be over come.
78 For some time there was flickering improvement in the relations between the quondum husband and the quondum wife and they lived together.
His plea is his right to ignore.
Ill used wives and desparate divorcees shall not be driven to material and moral dereliction to seek sanctuary in the streets.
