v The State of A.P.(2), Bhim Singh Rup Singh vs State of Maharashtra(3) it has been said that to the principles laid down in Sanwat Singh 's case may be added the further principle that "if two reasonable conclusions can be reached on the basis of the evidence on record, the Appellate Court should not disturb the finding of the Trial Court".
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions(5) "Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
(3) A.l.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan, this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion, bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup 's case.
The Inspector of Police P. W. 15, however, stated that P. W. 3 did not state before him that she saw the accused making a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
The learned Counsel for the appellant advanced the usual argument submitted in all cases where an order of acquittal is reversed, namely, that where two views of the evidence are possible, the accused is entitled to the benefit of the doubt arising from the two views and that where the Trial Court has taken a possible view and acquitted the accused, the High Court should not interfere with the order of acquittal merely because another view is also possible.
vs State of U.P. & Anr.(1).
R. (4) Salmon J. in his charge to the jury in R. V. Fantle reported in (5) 370 The law would fail to protect the community if it admitted fanciful possibilities to deflect the course of justice.
vs State of Rajasthan(1).
P.W. 3, an old woman of 69 years, stated in her evidence that she saw the accused who was sitting by the side of the deceased on the cot make a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased and that the deceased cried out 'Amma. ' In cross examination she stated that she did not remember if she had told the Police that the accused made a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
: Criminal Appeal No 133 of 1975.
In Sanwat Singh 's case, this Court harked (1) A.l.
A. No. 628/73.
(1) 61 I.A. 389.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
Where the Trial Court allows itself to be beset with fanciful doubts, rejects creditworthy evidence for slender reasons and takes a view of the evidence which is but barely possible, it is the obvious duty of the High Court to interfere in the interest of justice, lest the administration of justice be brought to ridicule.
This, of course, is not a new principle.
On 18th December, 1972, according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
There was no fracture.
(2) A.I.R. 1971 S.C. 460.
On 18th December, 1972.
If the preponderance of probability is all one way, a bare possibility of another view will not entitle the accused to claim the benefit of any doubt.
The house consisted of only one room.
To entitle an accused person to the benefit of a doubt arising from the possibility of a duality of views, the possible view in favour of the accused must be as nearly reasonably probable as that against him.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
He regained consciousness next morning.
The appellant was acquitted by the learned Additional Sessions judge, Chittoor of an offence under Section 302, Indian Penal Code.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY, J.
The High Court was also right in holding that the medical evidence supported the prosecution version and not the defence version.
This time he also brought with him P.W. 8, an elderly gentleman from his village.
, this Court observed: "Neither mere possibilities nor remote possibilities nor mere doubts which are not reasonable can, without danger to the administration of justice, be the foundation of the acquittal of an accused person, if there is otherwise fairly credible testimony".
