section K. Gambhir for RR.
No satisfactory explanation was given in the course of the petition by the petitioners as to why they delayed the filing of the petition till December 28, 1978 even though they knew that there was an error in the notice issued under Rule 4(1) of the Rules in the month of October, 1978 more than two months before the date on which i, was filed.
The period prescribed for preferring claims and objections under Rule 4(3) was 30 days.
After November 25, 1978, a large number of nominations were received by the Returning officer.
No satisfactory reason for the delay was set out in the petition.
The claim of petitioner No. 5 was rejected as no evidence in support of his claim was produced before the Deputy Collector.
We make no order as to costs.
The other documents produced alongwith the writ petition referred to omissions of certain names from the electoral roll.
The Collector published the notice under Rule 4(1) of the Rules on September 30, 1978 and also called upon interested persons to prefer claims and/or objections thereto within a period of 20 days.
On December 30, 1978, the learned Single Judge before whom the case came up for orders directed the issue of notice of the petition and the stay application to the respondents and issued an interim order directing the respondents not to notify the results of the election under Rule 46 of the Rules pending disposal of the petition.
They prayed for a further direction to be issued to the respondents calling upon them to hold the election after preparing the electoral roll afresh in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Rules.
On December 31, 1978, the poll was held and 44 persons were declared elected.
On special leave being granted, the above petitions were registered as appeals.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH, J.
For the purpose of holding election to the .
We, therefore, find it unnecessary to deal with the other points urged before us.
The High Court after hearing the parties dismissed the petition holding (i) that respondent No. 2, the Deputy Collector had asked petitioner No. S to appear before him on October 30, 1978 and that as he did not produce any evidence in support of his claim, his application was dismissed, (ii) that none of the persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 preferred any claim before respondent No. 2 on October 20, 1978 and that he did not refuse to receive any such claim and that no person preferred any claim or objection after October 19, 1978 before respondent No. 2 and (iii) that the petitioners were not entitled to any relief as they had approached the Court after undue delay.
The writ petition itself was filed on December 28, 19?8 when the poll had to take place on December 31, 1978.
No such appeal was presented.
Petition No 884 of 1978.
Aggrieved by the order passed by the High Court, Ashok Kumar Mishra and Bhagwat Singh Thakur (Petitioners No. 1 and 5 respectively in the 494 petition before the High Court) filed a petition for special leave to appeal to this Court and Purshottam Lal Sharma (petitioner No. 6 before the High Court) filed another petition.
The final list of candidates for the election with their symbols was published on December 20, 1978.
It was also stated therein that in the course of the discussion with the press reporters on that day, the Minister had stated that he had directed the Commissioner, Raipur Division, Raipur that the date for inclusion of names in the electoral roll could be extended if the election date was not affected.
The final electoral roll was published on November 16, 1978.
When the petition came up for order on December 29, l 978, it had to be adjourned to December 30, 1978 at the request of the counsel for the petitioners.
