By sub section (2) of section 141, the property tax levied on the owner can also be recovered from the occupier of the land or the building.
Those demands were challenged by the lessee on the ground, inter alia, that the provision imposing the land cess quoad royalty under the mining leases must be held to have been repealed by the Central Act viz. the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1958, and the .
Under section 5(1) of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 26 of 1973, which applies in the instant case, the right title and interest of a nationalised coal mine vest, by direction of the Central Government, in the Government company.
That the declaration in section 2 of the does not result in invalidation of every State legislation relating to mines and minerals is demonstrated effectively by the decision in State of Haryana & Anr.
It was further held by the Court that the land cess was not a tax on mineral rights but was in truth and substance a "tax on lands" within the meaning of Entry 49 of the State List.
The second sub rule added to Rule 20 was held to be without jurisdiction for the same reason.
Entry 5 of List II relates to "Local Government, that is to say, the constitution and powers of municipal corporations and other local authorities for the purpose of local self Government".
This contention was repelled by this Court by holding that sections 78 and 79 of the Madras District Boards Act had nothing to do with the development of mines and minerals or their regulation.
It was contended on behalf of 23 the sugar undertakings that since sugar is a declared industry under the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, Parliament alone was competent to pass a law on the subject and the State Legislature had no competence to pass the impugned Act by reason of Entry 52, List I read with Entry 24, List II.
This ordinance was replaced by Act No. 50 of 1976.
Similarly section 133 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act prescribes the procedure for "the imposition of any tax under section 132".
Section 69, which defines the powers of the Authority, shows that those powers are conferred, inter alia, for the purpose of municipal administration.
Section 68 defines the functions of the Special Area Development Authority, one of which, as prescribed by clause (v), is to provide the municipal services as specified in sections 123 and 124 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961.
Ltd. section K. Gambhir for the applicant intervener State of M.P.
The learned Attorney General contends that the taxing authority must all the same apply its mind to the question whether it wants to bring to tax the land or the building or both.
No documents seem to have been filed before it to bear out facts which are sought to be placed before us nor indeed have we evidence before us to show that the lands belong to the State Government.
By section 1(2) of that Act, the provisions inserted in the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act, with which we are concerned, were deemed to have come into force with effect from April 1, 1976.
14 Section 69(d) of the Act of 1973 must accordingly be read to mean that respondent 1 shall have all the powers of taxation which a Municipal Corporation or a Municipal Council has for the time being, that is to say, at the time when respondent 1 seeks to exercise those powers.
This Court, while rejecting the Corporation 's claim, held that though it was wholly controlled by the State Government it had a separate entity and its income was not the income of the State Government.
The learned author, after referring to English and American decisions, has summed up the position in the words of an American Judge, Sanborn, J. to the effect that as a general rule, a corporation will be looked upon as a legal entity and an exception can be made "when the notion of legal entity is used to defeat public convenience, justify wrong, protect fraud, or defend crime", in which case, "the law will regard the corporation as an association of persons".
(5) The impugned tax is manifestly an impediment in the discharge of the aforesaid function since it substantially increases the cost of the developmental activities.
Civil Appeal No. 213 of 1979 by special leave is directed against the dismissal of the Writ Petition.
Entry 54 of List I relates to "Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest".
By section 36 of the aforesaid Adhiniyam, local authorities were prohibited from recovering the property tax from November 24, 1970.
It is, of course, a public authority and its purposes, no doubt, are public purposes, but it is not a government department nor do its powers fall within the province of government".
(3) Under section 5 of the Nationalisation Act, the acquired properties were vested in a Government Company in order to carry out more conveniently the object of that Act, and for that purpose, the properties were freed from all encumbrances by section 6 of the Act.
Section 68, which prescribes the functions of the Development Authority, lays down by clauses (v) and (vi) that the Development Authority shall make provision for the municipal services and municipal management of the Special Area.
Civil Appeal No. 213 of 1979 filed by the Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd. arises out of Misc.
The High Court has given weighty reasons for rejecting that argument and we endorse those reasons.
The third contention of the Attorney General flows from the provisions of article 285(1) of the Constitution which says that the property of the Union shall, save in so far as Parliament may by law otherwise provide, be exempt from all taxes imposed by a State or by any authority within a State.
Entry 54 of List I does not contemplate the taking over of municipal functions.
The decision of a Constitution Bench of this Court in The Ishwari Khetan Sugar Mills (P) Ltd. vs The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors., is even more to the point.
Section 69(d) of the Act of 1973 reads thus: "69.
Its servants are not civil servants, and its property is not Crown property.
Petition No. 555 of 1977 filed by it in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh under Article 226 of the Constitution.
With Civil Appeal No. 213 of 1979 6 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 15th April, 1978 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Misc.
(ii) X X X X X X (iii)X X X X X X (iv) X X X X X X (v) where the annual letting 20 per centum value exceeds of the annual Rs. 24,000 letting value (2) The property tax levied under sub section (1) shall not be leviable in respect of the following properties, namely: 10 (a) building and lands owned by or vesting in (i) the Union Government; (ii) the State Government; (iii)the Council.
The power conferred by the State Legislature on Special Area Development Authorities to impose the property tax on lands and buildings is therefore not in conflict with the power conferred by the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act on the Union Government to regulate and develop the Coal mines so as to ensure rational and scientific utilisation of coal resources.
Section 69, by clauses (c) and (d), confers upon the Development Authority powers for the purpose of municipal administration and for the purpose of taxation.
On July 16, 1977 the Company was called upon to pay a further sum of Rs. 13,65,673.50 as property tax for the year 1977 78.
Chapter VIII of the Act, consisting of sections 64 to 71, is entitled "Special Areas".
In Special Leave Petition No. 10688 of 1979 filed against the judgment, the question raised is whether the property of a public corporation owned wholly by the State Government and the Union Government is exempt from taxes by reason of articles 285 and 289 of the Constitution.
Basing himself on that consideration the Attorney General argues: (1) By virtue of the declaration contained in section 2 of Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, the legislative field covered by Entry 23, 19 List II passed on the Parliament by virtue of Entry 54, List I. (2) The Parliament enacted the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act, 1973 for acquisition of coal mines with a view to reorganising and reconstructing such coal mines so as to ensure the rational, coordinated and scientific development and utilisation of coal resources as best to subserve the common good.
Ordinance No. 4 of 1976 inserted certain provisions in the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act.
The decision of this Court in Baijnath Kedia vs State of Bihar & Ors., on which the learned Attorney General relies, is distinguishable.
They provide: Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, as and from the financial year 1976 77, there shall be charged, levied and paid for each financial year a tax on the lands or buildings or both. .at the rate specified in the table below:" Nothing further is required to be done by the Municipality or the Municipal Corporation in order to impose the property tax and therefore the procedure preliminary to the imposition of other taxes which is prescribed by sections 129 and 133 of the two Acts, can 15 have no application to the imposition of the property tax.
Entry 23 of List II relates to "Regulation of mines and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union".
The first contention of the Attorney General must therefore fail.
It was held by this Court that the Haryana Act was not in any way repugnant to the provisions of the Act of 1957 made by Parliament and that the ownership rights could be validly acquired by the State Government under the State Act.
The learned Attorney General, who appears on behalf of the appellants, has raised four or five principal points, any one of which, if accepted, will result in the success of these appeals.
Demands were made upon the lessee for successive years for the payment of land cess under sections 78 and 79 of the Madras District Boards Act, 1920.
It was therefore a Government Company under section 617 of the .
The first contention of the learned Attorney General is that respondent I can exercise only such powers to levy property tax as the Municipal Corporation or the Municipal Council had under the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Corporation Act, 1956, or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961, as these Acts stood on 12 February 27, 1976, when clause (d) was inserted in its present form in section 69 of the Act of 1973.
Since the Central Act was primarily concerned with the development and regulation of declared industries and not with the ownership of industrial undertakings, it was held that the State legislature had the competence to enact the impugned law.
The procedure for imposition of taxes is contained in section 129 of the Municipalities Act and section 133 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
(See Secretary of State for India in Council vs Hindustan Co operative Insurance Society Limited; Craies on Statute Law, 7th Edition, pages 360 361.) The principle, broadly, is that where a statute is incorporated by reference into a second statute, the repeal of the first statute by a third does not affect the second (see Clarke vs Bradlaugh).
Petition o.555 of 1977.
Besides, as held by a Constitution Bench of this Court in the Collector of Customs, Madras vs Nathella Samathu Chetty & Anr.
In Rustom Cavasjee Cooper vs Union of India (The Banks Nationalisation case) it was held: "A company registered under the is a legal person, separate and distinct from its individual members.
On June 24, 1976, respondent 1 (the Special Area Development Authority, Korba) entered into an agreement with the appellant Company under which the Company agreed to contribute a sum of Rupees three lakhs annually to the "seed capital" of the Authority in consideration of the Authority agreeing not to exercise its power of taxation or of levying any other charges on the assets and activities of the Company under the Act of 1973 as amended from time to time or under any other Act or notification.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD, C.J.
This contention is devoid of substance.
The paramount purpose behind the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Develop 22 ment) Act, 1957 is not in any manner defeated by the legitimate exercise of taxing power under section 69(d) of the Act of 1973.
Surely, the functions, powers and duties of Municipalities do not become an occupied field by reason of the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957.
A shareholder has merely an interest in the Company arising under its Articles of Association, measured by a sum of money for the purpose of liability, and by a share in the profit.
The Haryana State Legislature passed the Haryana Minerals (Vesting of Rights) Act, 1973, under which two notifications were issued for acquisition of right to saltpeter, a minor mineral, and for auctioning certain saltpeter bearing areas.
1025 26 of 1978.
