The post of Professor of Radiotherapy in the Maulana Azad Medical College is a post belonging to Specialist Grade I which is equivalent to Supertime Grade II carrying a pay scale of Rs. 1800 2250.
The clinical teacher has an immediate and absolute responsibility, Physicians and surgeons still go round their wards at stated hours, followed by groups of students to whom they point out the features of each case, expound the nature of the malady and explain the reasons for the treatment adopted.
The medical colleges run by the Central Health Service are : (1) Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi; (2) Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi; and (3) Jawaharlal Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education & Research (JIPMER), Pondichery.
It is not disputed before us that the Union Public Service Commission has the power to relax the qualifications prescribed in the case of candidates otherwise well qualified.
Paragraph 2 (b) thereof reads : "Supertime Grade II 50 years For Professors/Additional Rs. 1300 1800 and be Professors low re in medical colleges laxable /teaching institu for Govt.
R. 8 (2) provides that every vacancy in the Specialists ' Grade shall be filled by direct recruitment in the manner specified in the Second Schedule.
(2A) of r. 8 were inserted respectively.
Provided that if no suitable officer is available for appointment to the post of Associate Professor or Assistant Professor in any medical college or teaching institution from the Grades of Assistant Professor or Lecturer, as the case may be, such vacancy shall be filled by direct recruitment in the manner specified in the Second Schedule.
are filled by promotion of officers of composite Supertime Grade II.
" Paragraph 3 of Annexure I to the Second Schedule reads as follows : "Specialists ' Grade 45 years For Associate (Rs. 600 1300) and below Professers/Readers (relaxable Assistant Profe for Govt.
servants) A post graduate degree in the concerned specially mentioned in Part A of Annexure II or equivalent.
R. 8 provides that after appointments have been made to the Service under rs. 7 and 7A, future vacancies shall be filed in the manner provided there under.
Besides the medical colleges, the Central Health Service also runs several medical institutions, viz. Hospital for Mental Diseases, Ranchi, Patel Chest Institute.
(2A) of r. 8 must be interpreted in its ordinary sense as meaning teaching experience gained "in the capacity of".
As medical education has developed, the distinctive feature is the thoroughness with which theoretical and scientific knowledge are fused with what experience teaches in the practical responsibility of taking care of human beings.
p. 810 : "The two or more clinical years of un effective curriculum are characterized by active student participation in small group conferences and discussions, a decrease in the number of formal lectures, and an increase in the amount of contact with patients in teaching hospitals and clinics.
By amendments dated February 21, 1968 and September 18, 1971, paragraphs 2 (b) and 3 of Annexure I to the Second Schedule and sub r.
It is for the Union Public Service Commission to advertise the post of Professor of Radiotherapy and everyone who satisfies the required qualifications can make an application.
But no longer, as formerly, is the student dependent upon "walking the wards", attending lectures and reading about the illness of which the cases he has seen are illustrations.
Delhi etc.
NON TEACHING POSTS Specialists ' Grade (now Specialist Grade II) All vacancies in this Grade (Rs. 1100 1800) are filled by direct recruit through the UPSC.
(2A) of r. 8 makes holding of a post in the cadre a condition precedent to the appointment of a Professor or an Associate Professor.
The Service was constituted for providing doctors for manning the medical, public health and medical research and teaching posts in the Central Government hospitals, dispensaries scientific research institutions and institutions of higher education.
ssors/Lecturers.
tions.
R. 8 (2A) however makes an exception in the case of Associate Professors and Assistant Professors Sub r.
(2A) of r. 8 contains a non obstante clause and it reads : "Notwithstanding anything contained in sub r.
The rules envisaged categorization of personnel manning the service into five different categories viz. Categories 'A ' to 'E '.
The Union Public Service Commission while advertising the post of Professor Radiotherapy which has fallen vacant, must, as it rightly did, invite the appellant for an interview for being considered for appointment to that post.
Since Dr. Bose was holding the Clinical post of Radiologist, he was not in direct line of and eligible for promotion to the 32 post of Associate Professor.
The teaching posts (Professors) and hospital specialist ' posts (comprising other than administrative and teaching posts) at present included in Supertime Grade II should be placed in the revised scale of Rs. 1800 2250.
A 35 further instance is furnished by the case of Dr. N. C. Shinghal vs Union of India.(1) On the recommendation of the Medical Superintendent, Willingdon Hospital, the post of Specialist in Ophthalmology which was an unspecified Specialist Grade post was upgraded by the Central Government as a specified post in Supertime Grade II, and Dr. B. section Jain, Chief Ophthalmologist cum Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, Medical College, Simla was transferred to that post.
For Associate Professors : At least 5 years ' experience as Reader /Assistant Professor in 41 the concerned speciality in a medical college /teaching institution after the requisite post graduate qualifications.
* * * * * * * * For Professors/Additional Professor, in medical colleges or tea 39 ching institutions, at least 6 years experience as Associate Professor/ Assistant Professor/Reader in a medical college or teaching institution after the requisite post graduate degree qualifica tion out of the aforesaid 12 years ' standing.
