That Rule reads: "88(v).
There was no suspension of the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Theatre.
That application was dismissed by the District Magistrate as per his order dated April 21, 1979 that the G renewal could not be made in the name of any party other than the original licensee, so long as there had not been any transfer of the licence by the original licensee in favour of another with the sanction of the licensing authority.
The renewal of the licence was subsequently given to Ved Gupta after rejecting the prayer of Krishan Kumar as representative of the firm for the grant of the renewal in the name of the firm.
The Judgment and order of the Division Bench of the High Court presided over by learned Acting Chief Justice is set aside and one by learned Single Judge, Dr. A. section Anand, is restored and consequently the Writ Petition No. 436 of 1980 filed by Respondents in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir stands dismissed.
The impugned order is one obviously passed by the District Magistrate in the exercise of his function of administering the provision of the Act and the Rules and the aforesaid implied power to take all incidental steps necessary for effective enforcement of the statute.
The challenge raised by Todar Mal against the refusal by the District Magistrate to include the names of himself and Krishan Kumar in the licence was rejected by the High Court as well as by this Court.
Civil Appeal No. 261 l A of 1981, which is directed against the order passed in C.M.P. No. 454 of 1981? is disposed of as infructuous 594 in view of our having set aside the judgment of the Division Bench on the merits.
On September 26, 1980, the Superintendent of Police, Jammu, reported to the District District Magistrate that cinema exhibition in Apsara Theatre was being conducted by some persons other than the licensee, and, hence the licensee had been challenged by him under Section 6 of the Act.
Civil Appeal No. 2611 of 1981 is directed against the judgment of the learned Acting Chief Justice which has been treated as the final judgment in the Letters Patent Appeal and Civil Appeal No. 2611 A of 1981 has been preferred against the order passed by the Division Bench C.M.P. No. 454 of 1981.
The order of the licensing authority was confirmed on appeal by the State Government.
There was, thus, a clear 591 prohibition against the licensee from transferring, assigning, subletting or otherwise transferring the licence without the permission of the licensing authority and also against his allowing any other person to exhibit films in the licensed place without obtaining such permission.
Civil Appeals No. 2611 and 2611 A of 1981.
It reads: "Whereas it has been brought to my notice by Shri Ved Gupta, sole licensee, Apsara Theatre that the District and Sessions Judge, Jammu, has issued a temporary injunction against the exhibition of films by him in the above said Theatre; And whereas the S.P. City by his letter No. 1/Conf.
The District Magistrate was requested by the said letter that orders may be passed suspending the exhibition of films in the Cinema till the final decision of the court is made in favour of either of the parties.
The Minister of State for Revenue and Law, Government of Jammu and Kashmir, heard counsel on both sides and ultimately dismissed Todar Mal 's appeal by a detailed order, of which Annexure G is a copy.
No steps were taken by Krishan Kumar to challenge the said order passed by the District Magistrate.
The Appeal preferred by Todar Mal against the order of the District Magistrate was dismissed by the concerned Minister of the State Government on April 26, 1978.
M/s Apsara Theatre represented by Krishan Kumar preferred a Letters Patent Appeal L.P.A No. l of 1981 against the judgment of the learned Single Judge.
Hence, it becomes obvious that the basic premise on which the learned Acting Chief Justice has founded his reasoning cannot be accepted as correct or sound.
On April 19, 1979.
The sole question arising for determination in these appeals concerns the validity of the said order passed by the District Magistrate and hence, it will be convenient at this stage to reproduce the full text of the order.
The legality of the aforesaid orders was challenged before the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir in Writ Petition No. 74 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal.
Notice of the said application was issued by the District Magistrate to Shri Ved Gupta and the District Magistrate conducted an enquiry at which both sides were heard through their advocates.
It was further held by The Acting Chief Justice that the effect of the licence was that "it renders privilege the building of the cinematographs used therein and the privilege must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
In the light of the foregoing discussion, we have no hesitation to hold that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge that Ved Gupta was a sole licensee and that the firm had no interest in the licence was perfectly correct and sound and the contrary view taken by the learned Chief Justice is erroneous.
The learned Acting Chief Justice has further expressed the view that except only the power of revocation, embodied in Section 6 F of the Act and an implied power to suspend a licence pending the proceed ings for such revocation, the District Magistrate had no jurisdiction or power to suspend the licence of the Theatre under any other circumstances.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court, Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
As already observed by us, the impugned order is not one suspending the licence issued in respect of the Theatre.
The impugned order is obviously one passed by him in the discharge of the said function.
section Ghosh and A. K. Nag for the intervener.
On the date of the institution itself, the District Judge, Jammu, issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
On July 22, 1969, a licence was issued by the District Magistrate to Ved Gupta under Section 3 of the Act to give public exhibition of cinematograph films at the Apsara Theatre situated at Gandhi Nagar, Jammu.
In the meantime, by a deed dated December 7, 1966, which was registered on December 24, 1966, the plot in question was taken on lease jointly by Ved Gupta, Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar for a period of 40 years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
On April 27, 1979, a suit was instituted against Ved Gupta and seven others by seven of the partners including Krishan Kumar for a declaration that the Cinema licence dated July 22, 1969, issued by the District Magistrate, Jammu (8th defendant) for exhibition of cinematographs in the building known as Apsara Theatre, Gandhi Nagar, Jammu, is the property of the firm Apsara Theatre and for a prohibitory injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7, namely, Shri Ved Gupta and six of the partners who were residing with him from interfering with the running of the Cinema by the plaintiffs and also for a prohibitory injunction against the District Magistrate (defendant 8) restraining him from interfering in any manner with the exhibition by the plaintiffs of cinematographs in the premises of Apsara Theatre.
578 D.D. Thakur, S.N. Kacker and R.P. Bhatt, for respondent in 2611/81.
In other words, a licence is liable to be revoked not merely when the licensee is convicted of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of the Act but also in the event of conviction of such offence of any person belonging to the class of persons other 590 than the licensee enumerated therein.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BALAKRISHNA ERADI, J.
In the, judgment of the learned Acting Chief Justice, he has opened the discussion of the merits of the case by an elaborate consideration of the question as to whether the licence in respect of the Apsara Theatre had been granted to Shri Ved Gupta in his individual capacity or as representing the partnership.
In the absence of any legal right or legitimate expectation being 593 available to the petitioners, there was no obligation on the part of the District Magistrate to afford them a hearing before passing the impugned order.
