352 T. section Krishnamoorthi Iyer, KR.
The High Court was of the view that the Corporation had not filed any evidence of any order prohibiting other officers one step below in rank, in this case the Assistant Divisional Manager, to exercise the power of Divisional Manager.
The appellants before the High Court also filed civil miscellaneous petition praying that in the circumstances stated in the affidavit filed therewith the High Court might be pleased to direct the Life Insurance Corporation to produce certain documents viz., proposals, review slips and proposal dockets and the connected papers of the present case and statements furnished by the Divisional office to the Zonal office showing the new business in the year 1960 and proposal register work of Divisional office for the year 1960.
Cheque for Rs. 300 was encashed by the appellant on 29th December, 1960.
Cheque for Rs. 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January, 1961.
Being aggrieved by the said decision, the plaintiffs respondents field appeal in the High Court.
The High Court was of the view that having regard to the conduct of the parties, there was a concluded contract.
When an insurance policy becomes effective is well settled by the authorities but before we note the said authorities, it may be stated that it is clear that the expression "underwrite" signifies accept liability under '.
The general rule is that the contract of insurance will be concluded only when the party to whom an offer has been made accepts it unconditionally and communicates his acceptance to the person making the offer.
The Trial Court was of the opinion that the proposal must be accepted by the Divisional Manager and that alone could give rise to a valid contract of insurance which never happened in this case.
Relying on certain other documents which were called for, for the first time by the High Court relating to certain other cases where only the Assistant Divisional Manager made similar endorsement, the High Court came to the conclusion that there was a valid contract.
The High Court was of the view that the plea that Divisional Manager was the only authority to accept had not been categorically taken in the written statement filed on behalf of the Corporation.
Learned Trial Judge was of the opinion that the documents in this case coupled with evidence on behalf of the Appellant Corporation established that the proposal sent by the deceased was for some reason 357 or other not accepted by the Divisional office by the time the deceased had died.
During the trial before the learned Subordinate Judge, five different issues were raised.
In this connection before the learned Trial Judge, reliance was placed on the Life Insurance Corporation of India Standing order, 1960 (Financial Powers).
The Trial Court therefore held that there was no concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation.
Chapter III of the Standing order dealt with the powers of the different authorities for, inter alia, 'Underwriting and Revivals of Policy '.
ivil appeal No. 2197 From the Judgment and order dated 16.4.70 of Andhra Pradesh High Court in appeal No. 431 of 1965.
The High Court by its judgment dated 14th April, 1970 held after considering the standing order exhibit B 13 and the various documents produced for the first time on record that there was acceptance of proposal and like 358 other contracts, the contract of insurance was complete by offer and acceptance.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI, J.
When the application so requires, the acceptance must be evidenced by the signature of one of the company 's executive officers.
On the other hand, there was a general statement that there was no concussed contract.
In our opinion, the High Court was in error in appreciating the facts and the evidence in this case.
Indeed there was no evidence that the Assistant Divisional Manager had accepted the proposal on the contrary he his deposition as we have indicated before had stated otherwise.
The deceased had issued two cheques for Rs. 300 and Rs. 220 respectively in favour of the appellant as first premium.
There was medical examination by the doctor on the life of the deceased on 27th December, 1960.
