On March 14, 1975 a resolution was passed by respondent 3 regularising the post of Head Clerk.
737 It is urged by Shri Jain who appears on behalf of the appellant that by reason of section 14(4) of the Amending Act, the appellant was entitled to continue in the service of the Panchayat on the same terms and conditions on which he was employed by the Panchayat Samiti until he was absorbed in Government service.
Sub section (4) of section 14 of the Amending Act provides that persons employed by a Panchayat Samiti before April 1, 1973 and who were in service at the commencement of the Amending Act shall continue to service on the same terms and conditions on which they were employed by the Panchayat Samiti", until they are absorbed in the Government service or retire in such manner as may be prescribed.
Civil Appeal No. 1433 of 1977 Appeal by Special leave from the Judgment and Order dated the 16th February, 1.977 of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Civil Writ Petition No. 752 of 1977.
Even assuming for the purposes of argument that the right to be considered for promotion is a term and condition of service, what is relevant for our purpose is not whether the appellant was entitled to be considered for promotion but, whether the Panchayat Samiti had the right to appoint him to the post of Head Clerk on the date on which it purported to do so.
On January 21, 1974 he was promoted as a Head Clerk on an ad hoc basis.
Sections 35(1) of the Act empowers the State Government to place at the disposal of a Panchayat Samiti such of its servants as are required for the implementation of the schemes connected therewith and for such other duties and functions as may be assigned to them by the Panchayat Samiti from time to time.
There is no substance in this contention.
The writ petition having been dismissed by the High Court, the appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
Being aggrieved by his absorption on a lower post, he filed a writ petition in the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, asking that he should be absorbed as a Head Clerk.
Section 35(3) which dealt with the conditions of service of the Government servants allotted to the Panchayat Samitis, was amended by section 14 of the Amending Act of 1973.
Section 13 of the Amending Act deleted section 33 of the Act.
He was, therefore, entitled to be absorbed in Government service as a clerk in any event.
On April 1, 1975, the appellant was appointed as a Head Clerk.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD, CJ.
The appellant was appointed as a clerk by the Loharu Panchayat Samiti in 1963, long before the Amending Act came into force on June 13, 1973.
any other law for the time being in force.
The appointment of the appellant to the post of a Head Clerk being without the authority of law, the Government was not bound to absorb him in the post of a Head Clerk.
There will be no order as to costs.
