It was also urged by counsel that by reducing the age of retirement to 55 years, the Government employees were deprived of their right to livelihood.
Besides, experienced deserving inservice personnel whose legitimate aspirations for promotion were thwarted could also now look for this much awaited promotion.
The age of retirement is 70 years in Brazil and Peru, 65 years in Chile, 63 years in Philippines and 64 years in Lebanon.
It was held by this Court that the termination of service of an employee on account of his reaching the age of superannuation does not amount to his removal from service within the meaning of Article 311 (2).
It was after noticing this distinction that the Court observed that the very case, namely, Moti Ram Deka 's case on which the appellant relied, contained the observation that the rule as to supperannuation or compulsory retirement resulting in the termination of service of a public servant did not amount to removal from service The Court, in Bishun Narain Misra, came independently to the conclusion that "as the rule in question only dealt with the age of superannuation and the appellant had to retire because of the reduction in the age of superannuation it cannot be said that the termination of his service which thus came about was removal within the meaning of Article 311".
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
(3) ; (4) ; (5) [1958] S.C.R.1052.
What is vital for the welfare of the citizens is, of necessity vital for the survival of the State.
Not the act of a Legislature.
By clause 15, All Rules and Regulations made under the proviso to Article 309 or continued under Article 3 l 3 of the Constitution or made under any other law for the time being in force, governing the recruitment and conditions of service of the Government employees, continue to be in force in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance.
The reports of the various Commissions, from which we have extracted relevant portions, show that the creation of new avenues of employment for the youth is an integral part of any policy governing the fixation of retirement age.
Besides, the ordinance making A power being a legislative power, the argument of mala Fides is misconceived.
Miss A. Subhashini for the Union.
(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India) AND Writ Petition Nos. 4218,4571 and 5266 5280 of 1983 Under article 32 of the Constitution of India) AND Transfer Case Nos. 44 339 of 1983 K.K. Venugopal S.S Ray, P.P. Rao, V.M. Tarkuade and R K. Garg, V. Jogayya Sharma, M.P. Rao, Sudarsh Menon, T. V.S N. Churi, G. Narasimhulu, A. Subba Rao, M.K.D. Namboodiry, H.S. Guru Raj Rao, section Markandeya, A.T.M. Sampath, D.K. Garg, Nikhil Chandra and A K Panda for the Petitioners.
"Where an act is arbitrary, it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Article 14."(l) But, while resolving the validity of policy issues like the age of retirement, it is not proper to put the conflicting claims in a sensitive judicial scale and decide the issue by finding out which way the balance tilts.
The instances of non application of mind cited by the learned counsel are these: The inclusion o f the employees of the High Court within the sweep of the Ordinance in violation of the provisions of Chapters V and VI of the Constitution; the inclusion of the employees of the Legislature Secretariat within the Ordinance; the extension of the Ordinance even to the daily rate workers; and, finally, the fact that nothing worthwhile is likely to be achieved by the passing of the Ordinance since, at the highest, it would create employment at this point of time only, for about 19,500 employees After that point of time passes, the same state of affairs will continue since the age of retirement will be merely substituted by 58 in place of 55 years.
1073 1100, 1117 19 1229 95, 142 1554, 1746 2140, 2155 2271, 2396 2459.
The age of retirement was previously governed by these two Rules.
The specific case of the State Government on the question of reduction of the age of retirement from 58 to 55 years is stated thus: "As a result of revision of the age of superannuation upwards from 55 years to 58 years, the normal channels of promotions that would have opened up had the retirements taken place in the normal course, were choked.
Rajasthan 55 years (Reduced from 58 years to 55 years about 12 years back) Uttar Pradesh 58 years (Reduced to 55 years in 1962; enhanced to 58 years) Tamil Nadu 58 years (For District Judges, lowered from 58 to 55 years) West Bengal 58 years (since 1961) .tb .9" It is clear from this table that the area between the ages of 55 and 58 is regarded in our country as a permissible field of operation for fixing the age of retirement.
A review of retirement benefits would undoubtedly cover the examination of the rules or schemes relating to pension, provident fund, gratuity, encasement of leave, etc, but it cannot include the power to examine the question as regards the fixation of the age of retirement.
Finally, there is no substance in the contention that the amendment to the Fundamental Rules, whereby the proviso to rule 2 was deleted, is beyond the powers of the rule making authority or the Legislature.
Its reasons for passing a law are those that are stated in the Objects and Reasons and if no reasons are so stated, as appear from the provisions enacted by it.
(6) [1965] I S.C.R. 693.
The Legislative Assembly of Andhra Pradesh was prorogued on April 9, 1983.
(3) [1979]1 S.C.R. 26. 608 sions of the Ordinance are, in any manner, arbitrary or unreasonable and thereby violate Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
The fixation of age of retirement has minute and multifarious dimensions which shape the lives of citizens.
A common scheme of general application governing superannuation has therefore to be evolved in the light of experience regarding performance levels of employees, the need to provide employment opportunities to the younger sections of society and the need to open up promotional opportunities to employees at the lower levels early in their career.
See Satish Chandra vs Union of India,(1) Shyam Lal vs State of U P.,(1) State of Bombay vs Saubhagchand M. Doshi,(3) Purshottam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India(4) and P. Balakotiah vs Union of India(5).
(e) The careful planning by the employees of their important affairs of life like the construction of a house, the marriage of a daughter or the repayment of loans, has been suddenly set at naught by the reduction in the age of retirement; (f) Two of the most relevant circumstances bearing upon the fixation of the age of retirement have been ignored by the State Government: increase in longevity and the prevailing age of retirement in public sector undertakings; and (g) No consideration was given to the plain and direct con sequence of the reduction in the age of retirement, namely, that the State exchequer would have to find and pay Rs. 70 crores on one single day by way of retirement benefits, for which no budgetary provision was made It would appear from these contentions as also from the contions advanced by the other learned counsel that the main plank of the petitioners ' case is that the decision to reduce the age of retirement from 58 to 55 is unconstitutional because it is arbitrary, irrational and unconnected with the object which it seeks to achieve.
It was suggested by the petitioners, though somewhat in passing, that the object of the State Government in reducing the age of retirement was to get rid of n senior members of Government service whose loyalty was thought to be not above suspicion.
etition Nos.
There was an "extraordinary unanimity of opinion" amongst Heads of Departments, distinguished retired public servants, public men and economists who gave evidence before the Commission that the age of superannuation should be raised, the only difference being as to whether it should be raised to 58 or 60 years.
The Third Tamil Nadu Pay Commission (1978) has also dealt with the question of the age of retirement.
However.
The power conferred by H 610 the proviso to Article 309 is of a legislative character and is to be distinguished from an ordinary rule making power.
(2) 11982]1 S.C.R. 947 at 964, 967.
Soon after the assumption of office, the Government of Andhra Pradesh presented a White Paper to the State Legislative Assembly in March 1983 on the question of reduction in the age of superannuation from 58 years to 55 years in respect of Government employees, employees of Panchayat Raj Institutions, Local Bodies and aided Educational Institutions for whom the pensionary liability is borne by Government".
By the counter affidavit, the Government of Andhra Pradesh denied that any of the provisions of the Constitution were violated by the impugned decision to reduce the age of retirement.
Clause 10(2) provides that every Government employee, not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service, shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the of the Commission cover the review of the existing 'retirement benefits ', the reference "would naturally include the age of retirement.
Shri P.P. Rao contends that the Ordinance is bad because.
(7) ; 606 determine the validity of Rules 148 (3) and 149 (3) of the Railway Establishment Code which provided for the termination of the service of a permanent servant by a mere notice But, interestingly, the judgment in Bishun Narain Mishra shows that it was the appellant therein who relied on the decision in Moti Ram Deka in support of his contention that the rule by which the age of retirement was reduced to 55 years amounted to removal within the meaning of Article 311 (2) The Court held that the decision in Moti Ram Deka had no application to the case before them since "that case did not deal with any rule relating to age of retirement".
Paragraph 601 3 of that Chapter shows that whereas some Service Associations Demanded that the age of superannuation should be increased to 60 years on account of increased longevity and on account of the fact that a large number of Government employees were not free from family responsibilities until much later in life because of late marriages, some of the Associations suggested that the age of retirement should be reduced again to 55 years mainly with a view to improving the promotional prospects and providing increased employment opportunities to the educated unemployed in the country.
588 The affidavit is sworn by Shri A.K. Sharma, Deputy Secretary to Government of Andhra Pradesh.
There is no one fixed or focal point of reasonableness.
(2) 11952] S.C.R. 597 at 607.
If the age of retirement is fixed at an unreasonably low level so as to make it arbitrary and irrational, the Court 's interference would be called for, though not for fixing the age of retirement but for mandating a closer consideration of the matter.
By a notification dated September 17, 19,9 the recommendations of the Commission B in regard to the revision of pay scales were accepted by the Government but, not so the recommendation regarding increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years.
Rules of retirement do not take away the right of a person to his livelihood: they limit his right to hold office to a stated number of years.
State of Tamil Nadu; , (2) Edited by Philips B. Kurland, Oxford and IBH Publisning Co., Page 13.
In any case, the power of a Commission to enquire into a question must depend 595 upon the terms of the Reference and not upon the statements made on the floor of the House.
Clause 10(3) provides that every workman belonging to the Last Grade Service or employed on a monthly rate of pay in any service notified as Inferior, shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Rule Nisi was issued on the writ petitions by this Court on February 25, 1983.
" 604 The White Paper explains that in order to ensure that the employees who had retired by the end of February 1983 should get their pensionary benefits without delay, the Government had constituted a special Pension cell in the Finance Department, by a notification dated February 16, 1983.
Shri Ray raised upon a decision of this Court in High Court of Andhra Pradesh vs V.V.S. Krishnamurthy,(3) which has taken the view that in regard to the servants and officers of the High Court, Article 229 of the Constitution makes the power of` their appointment, dismissal, removal, compulsory retirement, etc., including the power to prescribe their conditions of service, the sole preserve of the Chief Justice and no extraneous executive authority can interfere with the exercise of that power.
Even assuming that the executive, in a given case, has an ulterior motive in moving a legislation, that motive cannot render the passing of the law mala fide.
Maharashtra 58 years Orissa Previously 55 years; enhanced to 58 years.
The contention of the petitioners is that the proviso which conferred a benefit upon Government servants by protecting their conditions of service, cannot be amended so as to empower the Government to alter those conditions to their prejudice and, in any event, they cannot be amended retrospectively so as to take away rights which had already accrued to them The simple answer to this argument is that the amendment of February 17, 1983 to the Fundamental Rules was made by the Government of Andhra Pradesh in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 read with Article 313 of the Constitution.
This kind of 'transferred malice ' is unknown in the field of legislation.
The inconvenience alleged by the petitioners in the matter of payment of their pension and other retirement benefits was imaginary, since the Government was making extensive arrangements to disburse such benefits expeditiously.
The continuing shortage of trained man power led to a further review of the problem in 1958; but, apart from laying down the criteria for grant of extension and re employment, and re emphasizing the need to retain technical and scientific personnel beyond the age of superannuation, the only significant advance on the earlier decisions was that re employment or extension might be granted upto two years at a time.
Shri Venugopal challenged the Ordinance on the ground that it is unreasonable.
On February 8, 1983 an Order (G.O. Ms. No. 36) was issued by the Government of Andhra Pradesh stating that it had decided to reduce the age of superannuation of all Government employees, other than in the last Grade Service, from 58 to 58 years.
The Third Central Pay Commission (1973) dealt with the question of age of superannuation in Chapter 60 of its Report.
The rules and amendments made under the proviso to Article 309 can be altered or repealed by the Legislature but until that is done, the exercise of the power cannot be challenged as lacking in authority.
Rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules is omitted by Clause l 8(ii) while Rule 231 of the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules is omitted by clause 19 of the Ordinance.
Vague and casual allegations suggesting that a certain act was done with an ulterior motive cannot be accepted without proper pleadings and adequate proof, both of which are conspi (1) [1978] 2 S.C.R. 621 at 659, 685, 689 and 702.
In support of this view, it quoted the International Labour Organisation (The World Employment Programme): "The three pillars of a strategy for fuller employment are rural development, labour intensive public works programmes and the reduction of capital intensity of industrialisation." Observing that the dimensions of unemployment problem should not deter the Government from improving the service conditions of its employees.
Shri A.T.M. Sampath laid stress on the lack of acceptable reasons to justify the issuance of the Ordinance Like some of the other learned counsel, he suspects the bona fides of the state Government in issuing the Order and the Ordinance.
If the question raised by Shri Garg is academic, it will be needless to consider it.
Such a fixation of age would be unreasonable or arbitrary if it does not accord with the principles which are relevant for living the age of retirement or if it does not subserve any public interest.
thus notwithstanding the recommendation of the Varadachariar Commission, the age of superannuation laid down for the non ministerial staff more than 40 years earlier and for ministerial staff more than 20 years earlier, continued to be in force when the Second Central Pay Commission took up that question for examination.
If the policy adopted for the time being by the Government or the Legislature is shown to violate recognised norms of employment planning, it would be possible to say that the policy is irrational since, in that event, it would not bear reasonable nexus with the object which it seeks to achieve.
The decision of this Court in Moti Ram Deka which was also cited by the learned counsel, does not touch the point raised by him.
An executive act is liable to be struck down on the ground of non application of mind.
(See B.S. Vaderu vs Union of India;(1) Raj Kumar vs Union of India(2).
If reduction of the retirement age from 58 to 55 is to be regarded as arbitrary on the ground that it overlooks the advance made in longevity, fixation of retirement age at 58 is also not likely to sustain the charge of arbitrariness.
The Commission recommended that the age of superannuation should be 58 for all classes of public servants including those for whom the retirement age then was 60.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD, C. J.
Shri Gururaj Rao challenges the Ordinance on the ground that it runs into the teeth of the recommendation which the Andhra Pradesh One Man Pay Revision Commission had made in 1979 in pursuance of which the age of retirement was raised from 55 to 58.
In paragraph 15 of the Report, the Commission considered the effect of increasing the age of retirement on the employment situation and concluded that the likely repercussion of increasing the age of retirement on educated unemployment would not be substantial.
Therefore, it is vital from the point of view of their well being that the question should be considered with the greatest objectivity and decided upon the basis of empirical data furnished by scientific investigation.
Even otherwise, not more than one per cent of the unemployed educated youths are likely to get employment as a result of the reduction in the age of retirement from 58 to 55.
Learned counsel contends that this decision is of doubtful authority since the Court based its opinion on the majority judgment in Moti Ram Deka vs y,General Manager, North Frontier Railway(7), in which the Court was not called upon to consider and did not consider the validity of a rule of superannuation.
