Moreover against his order under that section a revision lies to Central Government which implies that he will have to make judicious use of his power or discretion and any improper exercise is liable to be corrected by a higher authority.
(e) and 'public interest ' in cl.
(2)14 Guj.
For instance under clause (a) the Administrator was required to have regard to the number of dealers existing 'in the region ' in which the applicant was intending to carry on business as dealer but the word 'region ' was no where defined in the Act; similarly clause (b) required the Administrator to have regard to the anticipated demand ', as estimated by him for the ornaments in that region but the expression 'anticipated demand ' was really vague and incapable of assessment leading to a great deal of uncertainty; similarly the expression (1)AIR 1971 Patna, 240.
27(6) this Court struck down sec.
Civil Appeals Nos.
27(6) of the Act invalid we would like to point out that while conferring power on the Administrator in the matter of granting or renewing a license to a dealer the unamended sec.
No rules have been framed prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the Administrator could refuse permission or grant permission.
L.R. 112. 957 'suitability of the applicant ' in cl.
In fact, sec.
5(1 of the Act requires that the Administrator should have regard to the policy and purposes of the Act in making his orders.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus: "28.
1264 67/71 etc.
" The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary, uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article, ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
28 of the Act valid.
In the absence of parity of situation or circumstances the doctrine of parity of reasoning cannot be invoked.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by TULZAPURKAR, J.
" In Harakchand Banthria 's case (supra) this Court has further pointed out that even though import of gold into India had been banned considerable quantities of contraband gold were finding their way into the country through illegal channels affecting the national economy and hampering the country 's economic stability and progress, that the Customs Department was not in a position to effectively combat the smuggling over the long borders and coast line, that therefore anti smuggling measures had to be supplemented by a detailed system of control over internal transactions and that the Gold (Control) Act, 1968 was passed for this purpose.
27(6) on the ground that it conferred a very wide and vague power on the Administrator.
It is true that no express rule prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the permission can be granted or refused (1) 955 has been framed nor any particular guide line has been expressly indicated in sec.
27(6) of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
Further, the section does not provide nor is any rule brought to our notice which enjoins upon the Administrator to give a hearing to dealer who seeks permission under this Section and give reasons in case he decides to refuse the permission.
27(6) of the Act, as it stood prior to its amendment by the Amending Act No. 26 of 1969, constitutionally invalid on the ground of conferal of a very wide and vague power upon the Administrator to grant or renew a license to a dealer.
D.K. Sen, Gopal Subramonium and R.N. Poddar for the Appellant.
collector of Central Excise Poona, II Division while declaring sec.
No such vague or indefinite expressions or concepts are to be found in sec.
(g) A did not provide any objective standard or norm and because such indefinite, uncertain and vague expressions or concepts had been used in some of the clauses under sec.
Ex parte for the Respondents.
It does not impose any blanket or 956 absolute prohibition upon a dealer from carrying on money lending, banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carries on business as a dealer but he is prevented only from carrying on business as money lender or banker on the security of any article, ornament or both unless authorised by the administrator.
If that be so it cannot be said that unfettered or uncanalised or arbitrary power has been conferred upon the Administration under sec.
28 by reference to which the Administrator is required to exercise his power.
The High Court 's reasoning in this behalf is to be found in its judgment at page 87 of the paper book and it runs thus: "The Administrator as is evident from this provision, is given unlimited authority or power to refuse permission or to grant permission.
