There is no order as to costs.
Under section 3 of the Wealth Tax Act, wealth tax is charged for every assessment year in respect of the net wealth of the assessee on the corresponding valuation date.
The system of accounting, mercantile or cash or hybrid, is of no relevance for the purpose of determining the assets of the assessee.
The reasons for defining the valuation date in terms of the last day of the income tax "previous year" stop there.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by 308 PATHAK, J.
Where the asset is an asset other than cash, its value is determined pursuant to sub section
C.S.S. Rao for the Respondent.
(I) of s.7 as the estimated price, which, in the opinion of the Wealth Tax Officer, the asset would fetch if sold in the open market on the valuation date.
The contention found favour with the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, and accordingly he deleted the additions of Rs. 1,50,000 representing accrued interest.
(m) of s.2 of the Act as "the amount by which the aggregate value . .
(1) of section 27 of the Wealth (1) (2) 309 Tax Act for a reference of the cases to this Court in view of the conflict of opinion between the Orissa High Court and the Andhra Pradesh High Court, and so these references have been made.
In this view of the matter, we approve of the opinion expressed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedrevu Venkappa Rao (supra) 311 and in Commissioner of Wealth Tax, A.P. I vs Pachigolla Narasimha Rao(1) and the Calcutta High Court in Dipti Kumar Basu vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, West Bengal(2) and hold that the view taken by the Orissa High Court in Commissioner of Wealth tax vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju (Orissa) (supra) and by the Karnataka High Court in A. T. Mirji vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Karnataka(3) cannot be accepted.
The figure of net wealth of the assessee at the end of the "previous year" takes into account the financial activities of the assessee during that "previous year".
Tax Reference Cases Nos. 3 to 5 of 1975 Tax Reference under Section 257 of the Income tax Act, 1961 made by the Income tax Appellate Tribunal, Cuttack Bench, Cuttack P.A. Francis, Champat Rai and Miss A. Subhashini for the Appellant.
" 310 The computation of the net wealth of an assessee calls for a determination of his assets and debts as on the valuation date.
The Commissioner of Wealth Tax applied under sub section
The expression "net wealth" is defined by cl.
In each of the assessments, the Wealth Tax Officer included a sum of Rs. 1,50,000 estimated as the accrued interest on the assessee 's money lending investments.
: These references under s.27(1) of the have been made by the Income Tax Appellate tribunal, Cuttack Bench at the instance of the Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Orissa for the opinion of this Court on the following question of law: "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Wealth Tax Officer was in law justified in including in the net wealth of the assessee interest due on accrual basis (though not realised) on the outstandings of the money lending business, the accounts of the assessee being maintained on cash basis ?" The respondent assessee was assessed to wealth tax for the assessment years 1965 66, 1966 67 and 1967 68 (the respective valuation dates being March 31, 1965, March 31, 1966 and March 31, 1967), in the status of a 'Hindu Undivided Family.
