We think that clause (iv) of the proviso to section 63(7) is unconstitutional and we so declare it.
When an application for a stage carriage permit is being processed as required by sec.
That is how section 47(1 H) was interpreted in Sher Singh 's case.
47, the application of the Undertaking for an inter State route shall be examined as application of any other private operator.
63(7) of the .
There is no question of eliminating private operators merely because the Undertaking applies for a stage carriage permit under Chapter IV.
Would this statutory provision violate equality guaranteed by article 14? The answer is obviously in the negative." . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ". . . let it be made clear that while considering the application for stage carriage permit under section 47, the private operator has an equal chance to get a permit even on inter State route if it shows that the Undertaking is either unable to provide efficient and economical service or that the private operator is better equipped to render the same.
" Sections 68 C, 68 D and 68 E provide for the preparation and publication of schemes of road transport service to be provided by State Transport Undertakings, the procedure to be followed, etc.
In an application under Chapter IV, Corporation has to enter the arena like any other applicant, face the competition and come up to the level of other private operators intending to obtain stage carriage permits and then in respect of the route in question claim preference.
Section 42 prescribes permits for the use of a transport vehicle in any public place.
" The proviso to section 47(1) prescribes that, other things being equal, a registered cooperative society and a person possessing a licence for driving transport vehicles shall be given preference over individual owners in granting stage carriage permits.
In the second place, we have no indication as to the manner in which the approval of the Central Government is to be sought and granted and the considerations which are expected to weigh with the Central Government.
A question was raised before us about the vires of the fourth clause of the proviso to section 63(7).
47(1 H) however, provides that in the case of inter State route, the Undertaking will have preference in the matter of stage carriage permit.
The High Court of Karnataka tided over the difficulty by interpreting the expression "tourist cars" as meaning "tourist vehicles".
Desai, J., speaking for the court observed: "However, when an application for a permit is made under Chapter IV, the Undertaking has to compete with private operators who may as well make an application for permit.
By section 24 of Amending Act 47 of 1978, a proviso to section 63(7) was introduced.
In the judgment under appeal, the High Court attempted to distinguish the decision of this Court in Sher Singh 's case on the ground that any other interpretation would have wiped out the difference between Chapter IV and Chapter IV A.
Section 63(7) is the provision with whose interpretation and vires we are primarily concerned in this case.
Shri C.S. Vaidyanathan, learned counsel for the 'Preferred ' Operators has placed before us 'a Scheme for granting approval to tourist transport operators in India. ' The scheme makes no reference to the proviso to sec.
By an order dated February 1, 1984, the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
Shri Shanti Bhushan, learned counsel for the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, Dr. Chitley, learned counsel for some of the private operators, Shri Datar, learned counsel for the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation, Shri Sampat and Shri Javali, learned counsel for other private operators submitted that the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court were wrong in distinguishing the decision of this court in Sher Singh 's case and that the true position was that on a correct interpretation of the proviso to sec.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY, J.
The rule is a rule of preference and not a rule of exclusion.
We do not think the High Court was right in distinguishing the case in that fashion.
" Section 68 enables the State Government to make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of Chapter IV.
The proviso to section 47(1) for example, provides that other conditions being equal, an application for a stage carriage permit from a cooperative society or a person holding a valid licence for driving transport vehicles shall as far as may be, be given preference over applications from individual owners.
" What has been said by the Court with reference to the preference 1017 provided for in section 47(1 H) applies with equal force to the preference provided for by the proviso to section 63(7).
It signifies that other things being equal, 1016 one will have preference over the others.
Though the permits to be granted are for tourist vehicles, the preference is confined to operators of tourist cars and travel agents.
63(7), the preference became operative only if other things were equal.
Section 47(1 C) enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
