The transfer was effected by debit ing the assessee 's personal account in the books of the Hindu undivided family with Rs.50,000 and crediting the same in the personal account of his son.
It was held by the High Court that gifts were invalid.
In Commissioner of Wealth Tax vs Gulab Rai Govind Pra sad, there was an alleged gift of Rs.2 lakhs to minor son by book entries.
C 's wife withdrew various sums of money from time to time from the interest account and whenever C desired to retransfer amounts to his capital account he obtained let ters of consent from her.
This Court held affirming the decision of the High Court that section 10 did not apply to the gifts of Rs. 1 lakh and Rs.50,000 made by the deceased to his son and to his wife respectively.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee, his father, for the gift of Rs.25,000 made to him and Rs.50,000 gifted to his son.
The Tribunal held that section 10 of the was not attracted and the sum of Rs. 1,50,000 could not be included in the property passing on the death of M; and the High Court, on a reference, affirmed the viewes of the Tribunal.
The appeal under section 29(1) of the (hereinafter called the Act) is directed against the judgment and order of the High Court of Allahabad dated 6th of January 1971.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
On 20th November, 1956, the assessee had a substantial credit balance exceeding the sum of Rs.50,000 which he purported to give to his son.
It was held by the Bombay High Court that there was no valid gift.
On 20th November, 1956, the assessee purported to transfer Rs.50,000 from his account to the account of his son.
There was no evidence that gifts were accepted on behalf of minors.
On 27th March, 1957, M made a gift of Rs. 1 lakh to his son, L, and of Rs.50,000 to his wife, K, by making debit entries in his account in the firm and corresponding credits to the accounts of L and K. With effect from 28th March, 1957, L was taken as a partner in the firm by giving L one forth share out of the half share of M. M died on 9th January, 1962.
Appeal No. 1713(NT) of 1973.
This position of law has been referred to and reiterated by the Bench decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of India Glass Agency vs Com missioner of Income Tax, New Delhi, Justice Ranganathan of the Delhi High Court after referring to several authorities has observed that book entries may be sufficient only when circumstances make it clear that the gift was genuine and the firms where accounts transfer are effected must have sufficient cash in hand or sufficient provision for overdraft facility upon the basis of which it would honour the instructions given by the assessee.
It was held on the facts of that case that the asses see had made a valid gift of the value of Rs.50,000.
On 1st January, 1957, the account showed a credit of Rs. 1,50,740.
It was further held that there was no trust either and that there was nothing in the acts or conduct of C to show that he intended to create a trust or to constitute himself a trus tee.
The next contention was regarding the inclusion of net wealth a sum of Rs.67,560/12/ standing to the credit of the assessee in the books of M/s Pearls & Beads.
In the case of Commissioner of IncomeTax, Ahmedabad vs Digvijaysinghji Tin Factory, , on the contrary it was held that the gifts were valid though not sufficient cash with firm avail able but proper book entries were made.
This question has been examined by the various High Courts.
In the impugned judgment, the Allahabad High Court had followed the said decision.
held that under section 123 of the , in case of gift of movable property, the transfer may be effected by delivery.
1957? (2) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not validly assign Rs. 1,50,000 in favour of his sons and grand sons by his letter dated 1.1.
There was no dispute that instructions of the assessee were car ried out by the Company and relevant debit and credit en tries were made in the respective accounts.
Section 123 of the said Act deals with how transfers are effected and stipulates, inter alia, that for the purpose of making a gift of movable property as in this case, the transfer must be effected either by a registered instrument signed by the donor and attested or by delivery.
Balance of the firm was only Rs. 15.
Memo of gift recorded on stamp paper.
No useful purpose, therefore, will be served by reference to that case.
There was no evidence, it appears, that the said sum was available with the said firm of M/s Pearls & Beads.
This deci sion went up to the Privy Council but on the aspect of gift, no opinion was expressed by the Judicial Committee.
1957? (3) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal tight ly held that the sum of Rs. 1,50,000 was properly included in the assessee 's net wealth? (4) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs.67,560/ (5) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the sum of Rs.67,560/12/ was rightly included in the net wealth of the assessee? The case relates to the assessment year 1957 58 and the relevant date of valuation was 31st March, 1957.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities, even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms, gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
Gift is defined in section 122 of the as transfer of certain existing mova ble or immovable property made voluntarily and without consideration by 126 one person, called the donor, to another, called the donee, and accepted by or on behalf of the donee.
