It was faintly suggested by the Government 's counsel that the first petitioner does not represent all the maz doors.
It is not one of those cases where the evidence is first gathered and a decision is later arrived at one fine morning and the deci sion is incorporated in a reasoned order.
One of the methods of securing the public interest, when it is considered necessary to dispose of a property, is to sell the property by public auction or by inviting tenders.
Petitioner No. 2 & 3 are the life members of the Zoo and the remaining two, bona fide residents of Greater Calcutta and lovers of wild life.
However, before this Court there are only two petitioners, the 1st and the 2nd in the writ petition.
This was refuted by the appellants.
It was the suggestion for the All India Tourism Conference presided over by the Union Minister for Tourism that State Government should make plots in good locations available at concession al rates for construction of hotels in order to promote the Tourist Industry.
The further submission of Dr. Singhvi was that whatever might have been the terms of the grant in favour of the Zoological Garden, the Bengal Parks Act, 1904, vested the land in favour of the Zoological Garden and there was no way by which the Government could divest the Zoological Garden of the land except by a procedure known to the law such as acquisition or requisition.
The amount expended by the lessee towards the reconstruction of the structures was to be adjusted without interest against the dues of the lessee to the Government.
This was what was recommended by WEBCON, the consulting agency of the West Bengal Government which sub mitted a detailed report on the subject.
This short tail piece is with a purpose.
The writ petition is mainly based on the ground that the deci sion of the Government is arbitrary.
Prayer for stay of the operation of this order is rejected.
Paragraphs 165, 166 and 167 deal with simple cases of creation of non agricultural tenancies by way of long term leases.
The vehicular traffic on Belvedere Road which was also heavy did not bother the birds and the slight increase of the vehicular traffic consequent on the construction of the hotel was also not likely to bother them either.
The Chief Minister also pointed out that the lessee and their experts on wild life has assured them that in any case adequate precaution would be taken in regard to illumination of the hotel and the layout of the surrendings so that no disturbance would be caused to the flight path of the birds or animals.
Ultimately, by the dismissal of this appeal, the hotel will be completed and will be commissioned.
The reso lution was justified on the assumed premises but unfortu nately it was rounded on a wrong premises.
Our attention was drawn by the learned counsel for appellants to the presence of two renowned experts at the meeting of the Wild Life Fund on September 25, 1981.
The WEBCON submitted further reports.
After an exhaustive discus sion of the various aspects of the case, the learned Trial Judge dismissed the petition.
Procurement of green fodder for the large number of harvivorous animals of the zoo is already a serious problem for the zoo and any disturbance to fodder cultivation will aggravate the situation.
The learned counsel for the appellants urged that the second Cabinet Memorandum dated September 9, 1981 on which date the Government took the final decision to grant the lease made no mention of the needs and interests of the Zoo or the facilities provided in the Begumbari land for the Zoo.
KHALID, J: The tenacity with which this expensive public interest litigation was pursued by the petitioners, before the learned Single Judge and a Division Bench of the Calcut ta High Court and before this Court is commendable.
Taj Group suggested further modifications.
One of the terms was that the land should be restored to the Government whenever required.
Only Taj Group of Hotels came forward with an offer to start the hotel.
First a learned Single Judge dismissed the Writ Petition.
There is infact no provision which deals with the vesting of property in a park.
The Managing Com mittee of the Zoo also initially expressed its opposition to the proposal to construction hotel on land belonging to the Zoo.
(4) post mortem room for carrying out p.m. findings, (5) dumping ground for dumping huge garbages coming out of the Zoo daily, (6) fodder cultivation area for growing fodder for the harbivorous animals and (7) pathological laboratory for carrying pathological tests of animals and birds.
We are satisfied that for the purposes of the present case, we will be justified in proceeding on the basis that the land which was undoubt edly Government land, to start with, was given to the Zoo logical Garden upon the terms set out in the two letters.
This case goes by the name "Public Interest Litigation.
State owned or public owned property is not to be dealt with at the absolute discretion of the executive.
If a stay is granted, similar situation will fol low.
Originally the writ petition was filed by five persons.
The learned counsel for the Taj Group made available to us, the method adopted.
272 In Ram & Shyam Company vs State of Haryana (supra) dealing with the question of disposal of State property Desai, J. speaking for the court said, "Let us put into focus the clearly demarcated approach that distinguishes the use and dis posal of private property and socialist property.
The Zoological Garden, Alipore was one such park.
In R.D. Shetty vs International Airport Authority (supra).
Its action was not against the interests of the Zoological Garden or not in the best interests of the animal inmates of the zoo or migrant birds visiting the zoo.
Shri J.R.D. Tata, on behalf of the Taj Group of Hotels, also wrote to the Prime Minister assuring her that the hotel management had dis cussed the matter at length with a representatives of the Wild 261 Life Fund who, after discussion, had been satisfied that the proposed hotel would cause no disturbance to the birds.
The Chief Minister assured the Prime Minister that the existing structures would be relocated on the adjacent land and until that was done the Zoo would continue to get their services and facil ities from the existing structures.
It was also pointed out that particular care would be taken in the matter of illumination of the hotel so that bright lights or neor signs emanating from the hotel would not disturb the birds and animals.
" The Minister for Metropolitan Development submitted a note to the Chief Minister on the resolution of the Managing Committee of the Zoo.
That the land must be restored to the Government if hereafter required.
A welfare State exists for the largest good of the largest number more so when it proclaims to be a socialist State dedicated to eradica tion of poverty.
Today public spirited litigants rush to Course to file cases in profusion under this attractive name.
Bhagwatti, J. speaking for the Court observed that the activities of the Government had a public element and if it entered into any contract, it must do so fairly without discrimination and without unfair procedure.
Because of the pendency of this matter, valuable time has been lost and if further time is lost, the respondent No. 5 may not have any further interest in the matter.
But, after hearing the lengthy arguments advanced, I ask myself the question whether this exercise could not have been avoided.
If a piece of adjacent land, for example, is taken on lease for a specified number of years by the park and included in the park by a notifica tion under sec.
One of the submissions of Dr. Singhvi, learned counsel for the appellants, was that the Bengal Public Parks Act, 1904 vested the Begumbari land in the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden and that what had become statutorily vested in the Committee could not be divested by an execu tive fiat.
Therefore, public auction has necessarily to be ruled out.
In Rash Bihari Panda vs State of Orissa (supra) the Government offered the option to purchase kendu leaves to certain old contractors on the same terms as in the previous year.
The assurance was also conveyed to the Managing Com mittee through the amissaries of the Chief Minister.
In any case, it was necessary either to held a public auction or to invite tenders atleast from the limited class of persons interested in utilising the land for the purpose for which the land was proposed to be transferred.
The records were before the High Court and there are now before us two copies of a letter written on July 7, 1880 by the Assistant Secretary to the Government of Bengal in the Public Works Department to Mr. L. Schwandler, Honorary Secretary, Zoological Garden conveying to him the sanction of the Lt. Governor for the transfer of the land to the east of Belvedere Road, known as Begumbari land to the charge of the Committee of the Zoolog ical Garden on the terms agreed to by the Committee in their letter dated April 23rd.
In State of Haryana vs Jage Ram (supra), it was held that it was not open to the Excise Authorities to pick and choose a few persons only as the recipients of the notice of reauc tion.
In Kasturilal Lakshmi Reddy vs State of Jammu and Kash mir (supra), Bhagwati, J. again, speaking for the Court reiterated what had said earlier in R.D. Shetty vs Interna tional Airport Authority (supra).
ivil Appeal No. 378 of 1987.
The learned counsel for the appellants drew our atten tion to a letter written by Dr. Biswas to the Statesman dated August 3, 1982 in which he disowned having made any statement to a press correspondent by name, Bachi J Karkaria that the hotel posed no threat at all to the migratory flight path.
If four acres of land were given, he expressed the apprehension that the hospital and the dumping ground would have to be moved elsewhere.
In the place of a dilapidated hospi tal, operation theater and the like, they constructed build ings anew at a cost of Rs.30 lakhs which amount they were entitled to be reimbursed under clause 25 of the lease, which they voluntarily gave up.
This criticism again, according to me, is unfounded.
There was no explanation as to how they came to be chosen and what their status and standing in the trade were to justify the choice.
The Government of West Bengal did not fail to take into account any relevant consideration.
I No. 1, June 1984.
" This public interest:litigation takes its birth, perhaps from the righteous indignation of the petitioners, against the State Government at their bartering away of four acres of land belonging to the Zoo to the Taj Group of Hotels.
It contains five small structures 253 including a cage and a small veterinary labo ratory or dispensary.
The Bengal Parks Act, 1904 was enacted "to protect public parks and gardens in Bengal from injury and to secure the public from molestation annoyance while resorting to such parks and gardens.
The West Bengal Land Management Manual, 1977 is pub lished under the authority of the Board of Revenue, West Bengal.
On August 30, 1982, Shri J.R.D. Tata wrote to the Prime Minister pointing out that their Hotel management had discussed the matter at length with represen tatives of the Wild Life fund who were satisfied that the proposed hotel would cause no disturbance to the birds.
The city of Calcutta was noticeably lacking in the 'Five Star Hotel amenity ' to attract tourist, local and foreign, and the Government of West Bengal was anxious to do its best to promote the tourist industry which it was hoped, would provided direct and indirect employment, earn foreign exchange and confer other economic benefits to the people of the State.
The Committee 's objections were two fold: (1) A muliti storied building in the vicinity of the Zoo will disturb the 258 animals and the ecological balance and will affect the bird migration (2) the land was already used for various pur poses, that is, fodder cultivation, burial ground for ani mals, hospital, operation theatre, quarantine area, post martom room and nursery.
"I agree.
Later Mrs. Anne Wright appeared to be satisfied with what was finally done as evident from her letter dated November 19, 1983 to Mr. J.R.D. Tata, a copy of which has been placed before us.
This argument, plausible though it may seem is fallacious because it does not take into account the policy of the state not to allow export of resin outside its territories but to allot in only for use in factories set up within the State.
The Chief Minister further drew the attention of the Prime Minister to the fact that the hotel was likely to be a six storeyed one and would not be the only tail building near the Zoo.
265 2nd.
Thereafter an expert Committee was consti tuted to supervise the construction Of alternative facili ties.
The submission was that neither the Cabinet memorandum of Janu ary 7, 1981 nor the Cabinet Memorandum of September 9, 1981 revealed that relevant considerations had been taken into account.
This resolution was forwarded to the Chief Minister and considered by his as evident from the note of the Chief Minister and the suse quent reversal of the Managing Committee 's resolution at the instance of the Chief Minster and on his assurances.
Such an 273 approach serves the larger public purpose of expanding welfare activities primarily for which Constitution envisages the setting up of a welfare State." In Chenchu Rami Reddy vs Government of Andhra Pradesh (supra) it was observed that public officials entrusted with the care of 'public property ' were required to show exem plary vigilance.
This was passed by the majority of the members present, the President Justice Shri R.K. Banerjee dissenting.
The Court held that the right to make offers being open to a limited class of persons, it effectively shut out all other persons carrying on trade in Kendu leaves and also new entrants into that business.
Section 3 enables the State Government to extend by a notification, the boundaries of a park but that can only be for the pur poses of the Act and not for the purpose of vesting or creating any title in a property.
On April 23, 1982, Late Smt.
The Chief Minister approved the proposal and re quired it to be placed before the Cabinet.
No place to hear the unfurling of leaves in spring or the rustle of an in sect 's wings.
The learned 267 counsel invited our attention to several decisions of the court: Rash Bihari Panda vs State of Orissa, ; ; R.D. Shetty vs International Airport Authority, ; ; Kasturi Lal Laxmi Reddy vs State of Jammu & Kashmir, ; ; State of Haryana vs Jage Ram, ; Ram & Shyam Co. vs State of Haryana, and Chenchu Rami Reddy vs Government of Andhra Pradesh, [1986] 3 SCC 391.
280 I conclude this short Judgment, with a lurking doubt in my mind, and with a question "Is there something more than what meets the eye in this case?" S.R. Appeal dis missed.
The Zoological Garden Committee being reimbursed for any expenditure they may have incurred in building there." Dr. Singhvi questioned the authenticity of the documents and also objected to their reception in evidence on the ground that no foundation had been laid for the reception of sec ondary evidence.
The question of the migratory birds was first raised in the resolution of the Managing Committee dated June 11, 1981.
This was also the recommendation of the Committee of Secretaries who went into the matter in depth.
On January 15, 1982, the Government of West Bengal wrote to the Land Acqui sition Officer, with 250 copies to the Taj Group of Hotels, directing the Land Acqui sition Officer to give possession of the land to the Taj Group of Hotels subject to their later executing a proper long term lease.
Much of the argument on this question was based on the assumption that the decision to lease the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels was taken on February 12, 1981.
"* * * * * * Originally this zoo was on the outskirts of the City but the City has grown in such a fashion that the zoo has vertually become the City Centre and there is hardly any scope for its expansion.
On February 12, 1981, the Cabinet took a decision ap proving the proposal contained in the last paragraph of the Cabinet Memorandum, thus clearing the way for negotiations with the Taj Group.
The only ground on which the appellants succeeded before the Trial Judge was on locus standi.
" Section 4 enables the Government to make rules for the management, and preservation of any park, and for regulating the use thereof by the public.
The decision taken by the All India Tourism Council was an open decision well known to everyone in the hotel business.
No one had raised any objection when those building were constituted.
An amount of 4 crores, if deposited in bank, at a particular rate of compound inter est, for 99 years, would swell to an astronomical figure.
The reply is profound It is beautiful.
279 My purpose in adding these few lines of my own is to highlight the need for restraint on the part of the public interest litigants when they move Courts.
The Chief Minis ter considered the objections and noted that if further facilities were necessary for the Zoo, Government would provide them.
This preliminary objection of the Hotel Group was rejected.
This eight acre plot of land is known as the Begumbari land.
Biologists forecast the extinction of animal and plant species on a scale that is incomparably greater than their extinction over the course of millions of years.
We do not for a moment doubt the genuineness of the two documents which have been produced from old official records.
On September 9, 1981 a detailed memorandum was prepared for cabinet discussion.
for the purpose of encouraging setting up of industries within the State, we do not think the State is bound to advertise and tell the people that it wants a particular industry to be set up within the State and invite those interested to come up with pro posals for the purpose.
The Commit tee was informed that now adays migratory birds were coming less in number though previ ously more foreign birds used to come here and in the opinion of the Managing Committee, the main reason for this was due to air and sound pollution.
I fully agree with his conclusions.
"As regards the objection that arise from the hotel itself from vehicular traffic to and from the hotel would disturb the birds, the hotel will be totally airconditioned so that no noise will emanate from it, while noise from the heavy traffic on Belvedere Road does not seem to have bothered the birds upto now.
Public interest is the paramount consideration.
Realising that the scheme of offering to renew con tracts with the old licences on the same terms was open to objection, the Government changed its policy and formulated a new scheme by which offers were invited from intending purchasers of Kendu leaves but the invitation was restricted to these individuals who had carried out the contracts in the previous year without default and to the satisfaction of the Government.
There was no report that the existing multistoreyed buildings had any adverse affect on the migratory birds or the animals.
"As per clause 11 of the Alipore Zoological Garden (Management) Rules, 1957, the disposal of properties and funds are vested in the Managing Committee of he Garden.
That was a case where land belonging to a Math was sold by private trenty for Rs. 20 lakhs when there were people ready to purchase the land for Rs. 80 lakhs.
On September 29, 1980 and November 29, 1980, there were two notes by the Secretary of the Metropol itan Development Department to the effect that the I.T.D.C. was interested in a property known as the Hastings House Property and that the Taj Group of Hotels who considered the Hastings House property unsuitable may be offered four acres out of the eight acres of Begumbari land.
On September 10, 1981 the Cabinet took the final decision to grant a ninety nine years lease of the Four acres of Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels.
One of the arguments strenuously pressed by Dr. Singhvi was that, even if it was assumed that the Government had the power to transfer the land, the Government did not have the power to deal with the land in any manner that they liked.
The decision was taken without considering the impact on the Zoo and without consulting various interested authorities and institutions.
Fodder for elephants should not again be considered to be problem.
It is timeless.
For this land is sacred to us. "This shining water moves in the streams and rivers is not just water but the blood of our ancestors.
On a consideration of the relevant cases cited at the bar the following propositions may be taken as well estab lished.
The sight of your cities pains the eyes of the red man.
Public interest litigation has now come to stay.
A welfare State as the owner of the public property has no such freedom while disposing of the public property.
If 269 the Government departed from such standard or norm in any particular case or cases its action was liable to be struck down unless it could be shown that the departure was not arbitrary but was based on some valid principle which was not irrational, unreasonable or dicriminatory.
The letter of the Director of the Zoo was followed by a note by the Secretary of the Animal Husbandry Department suggesting that the practical problems of the Zoo should receive de tailed consideration and that the immediate transfer of the land to the hotel would mean discontinuance of the existing facilities.
He is no expert on the subject of public health and no one has complained that there would be any hazard to the health of those living in the staff quarters by the re location Of the hospital, etc.
That the Govern ment was aware of the dissension based on the alleged ob struction likely to be caused by a mulit storeyed building to the flight of the migratory birds appears from the letter of the Chief Minister to the Prime Minister.
It was not so.
decentralising the judicial system and entrusting majority of traditional litigation to village courts and Lok Adalats without the usual populist stance and by a complete restructuring of the procedural law which is the villain in delaying disposal of cases.
On the other hand, disposal of public property par takes the character of a trust in that in its disposal there should be nothing hanky panky and that it must be done at the best price so that larger revenue coming into the coffers of the State administration would serve public purpose viz. the welfare State may be able to expand its beneficial activities by the avail ability of larger funds.
He was satisfied that the project could not possibly disturb birds using the lake or interfere with their free movement.
The lease was the culmination after a long, elaborate and open procedure with nothing to hide which therefore cannot justifiably be subject to ad verse criticism.
277 One redeeming factor in this case is the total absence of any allegation of malafides against the Government by the petitioners.
The relevant clause of the rule reads as below: "The Managing Committee shall have custody and disposal of the property and funds of the Gardens and shall be responsible for proper maintenance.
This has been mentioned in the various notings made from time to time.
A modern zoo hospital for animals has been constructed in the remaining extent of Begumbari land replacing the old hospital which was housed in a semi dilapidated building.
This is a case where the decision and the reasons for the decisions can only be gathered by looking at the entire course of events and circumstances stretching over the period from the initiation of the proposal to the taking of the final decision.
"Dr. B. Biswas, a renowned ormitholo gist, who recently retired as Professor Emeri tus of the Zoological Survey of India, whom the Taj Management consulted, confirmed that a 75 feet high building on the location would not worry birds landing on the lake or climb ing out of it.
The occasional additional cars plying into and out of the hotel could therefore hardly trouble birds resting on the lake some 250 yards away.
On September 28, 1981 the Government of West Bengal officially conveyed its acceptance of the proposal of the Taj Group of Hotels for the construction of a Five Star Hotel.
On a consideration of all the facts and circumstances of the case, we are satisfied that the Government of West Bengal acted perfectly bona fide in granting the lease of Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels for the construc tion of a Five Star hotel in Calcutta.
The Taj Group was invited to send the financial projection on the basis of the second alternative.
the object of the State in such a case is not to earn revenue from sale of resin, but to promote the setting up of industries within the State." And again, "If the State were giving tapping contract simpliciter there can be no doubt that the State would have to auction or invite tenders for securing the highest price, subject, of course, to any other relevant overriding considerations of public weal or interest.
In their writ petition or in course of their submissions before us the appellants did not try to make out a case of personal malice against the State Government or its Ministers and Civil Servants . . " The Division Bench held that the decision taken was neither unreasonable nor arbitrary and that taking away of four acres of land from the Zoo was not detrimental to public interest.
On a 276 perusal of the records I find that the State Government had made available to the Court all the relevant documents so as to satisfy the Court about the propriety of its action.
" The Act was made applicable to the public parks and gardens mentioned in the schedule.
My learned brother has considered the facts in detail and the questions of law relevant for the purpose of this appeal.
Cabinet approval was sought for the offers to be made to the I.T.D.C. and to the Taj Group and for the constitution of a suitable Committee to undertake negotiations with the two groups.
The same five persons figured as appellants before the Division Bench.
She drew the Chief Minister 's attention to the fact that 'apart from ' reduction in the already inadecu ate space for the Zoological Garden construction of a Five Star Multystoreyed Building would disturb the inmates and adversely affect birds migration which was a great attrac tion. ' She also mentioned that the expert Committee of the Indian Board for Wild Life also unanimously disapprove the idea.
The Chief Minis ter also mentioned that there appeared to be some misconcep tion that the plot in question was a part of the Zoo Garden.
Tenders and Auction were most impractical in the circum stances.
Since the Hastings House property, was not found acceptable by the Taj Group, it was decided to negotiate with them in regard to construc tion of a Five Star Hotel on the Begumbari land.
The India Hotels Co. Ltd. will find out in consultation with and with the concurrence of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department of this Government and the authorities of the Alipore Zoological Garden the period of time required for reconstruction of the essential structures standing on the land proposed to be leased out to the said company.
Dr. L.M. Singhvi, learned counsel for the appellants made the following submission before us; The Begumbari land was statutorily vested in the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden and that the Committee could not be di vested by an executive decision without proper procedure being followed.
The substance of the objection of the Public Undertakings Committee was that the facilities available in the Begumbari land would be left unprovided for if the land was given to the proposed hotel.
Shri Dipankar Gupta, learned counsel for the Taj Group of Hotels and Shri Gooptu learned counsel for the State of West Bengal argued that the former facilities available in the four arce plot of land were not displaced but were replaced and preserved by better facilities in the adjacent plot of land.
The Chief Minister was certainly aware of the question of the migratory birds before it was finally decided to allot the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels.
Indira Gandhi, Prime Minister of India wrote to Shri Jyothi Basu, Chief Minister of West Bengal expressing the hope that he would not allow the Calcutta Zoo to suffer in any manner and would leave in intact.
For the purpose of this case, we will accept the assertion of the first appellant.
The objections of the Managing Committee were first brought to the notice of the Minister for Metropolitan Development who submitted a note to the Chief Minister pointing out that even if four acres of land out of the eight acres of Begumbari land was given to the Taj Group, there would still remain sufficient land for accommodating the existing facilities.
The once Imperial City of Calcutta is.no exception.
The supporting affidavit to the writ petition was sworn to by the first petitioner who described himself as a trade unionist.
There were inter departmental notings which we presume must also have been brought to the notice of the Chief Minister.
They have given all the assurances necessary to preserve the Zoo and its inmates.
The decision taken by the Cabinet on February 12, 1981 was merely to enter into negotiations with the I.T.D.C. and the Taj Group of Hotels in regard to leasing the Hastings House property and the Begumbari land.
We agree that an Act of the Legislature cannot be undone by a mere act of the executive.
On September 1, 1982, Smt.
The Chief Town Planner thought that two to 21/2 acres of land only might be made available for the hotel.
Appearance of public justice is as important as doing justice.
On June 5, 1981, a Committee of Secretaries was formally constituted.
The following Judgments of the Court were delivered: CHINNAPPA REDDY, J. We grant special leave and proceed to dispose of the appeal.
Yet no one except the I.T.D.C. and the Taj Group of Hotels had come forward with any proposal.
On June 9, 1981, the Secretary of the Animal Husbandary and Veterinary Services Department complained to the Secre tary of the Metropolitan Development Department that they were not aware of the decision to lease the Begambari land.
On January 7, 1982, there was a joint meeting of the Establishment and Finance sub committees of the Zoo and it was decided to recommend to the Committee of management that the demarcated area of four acres may be relinquished in favour of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department subject to the requirement that the Zoo will continue to get the services and facilities in the existing structures until they were reconstructed on the adjacent land.
This is a fairly well known method adopted in such situations.
The report of WEBCON is a 246 comprehensive report on various topics connected with the establishment of a Five Star Hotel in Calcutta.
"What is man without the beasts? If all the beasts were gone, man would die from a great loneliness of spirit.
On January 7, 1981 a memorandum was prepared for the consideration of the Cabinet explaining the need for more Five Star Hotels in Calcutta and the benefits flowing out of the construction and establishment of such Five Star hotels.
That procedure had to be observed.
Another multistoreyed building which was going to be the largest in the locality was under construction near the Zoo for the Post and Telegraph Depart ment.
If the proposed hotel is set up, all the existing buildings, viz. hospital, morgue etc.
There was no occassion for the Government to invite tenders since the establishment of a Five Star hotel was not something which could practicably be undertaken by anyone in that fashion.
This is a case where discussions have necessarily to stretch over a long period of time.
On August 21, 1982 the Chief Minister sent his reply pointing out that the 252 four acres of land were agreed to be relinquished by the Committee of management of the Zoological Garden on condi tion that alternate arrangements were made for shifting the existing structures which were necessary for the Zoo from the plot in question to the adjacent plot.
The conditions were mentioned as: "1st.
On January 11, 1982 the Managing Committee endorsed the view of the sub committees and this was communicated to the Government.
"The hotel is planned to be built away from the frontage of that plot of Belva dere Road and to be low rise structure, the Highest point of which will not exceed 75 feet.
238 red man.
We have no evidence or any immediate or subsequent public protest but there were certain objections from some circles.
He treats his mother, the earth, and his brother, the sky, as things to be bought, plundered, sold like sheep or bright beads.
"There is no quite place in the white man 's cities.
They have suffered sufficient loss and the Govt.
prohibit or regulate fishing or boating, prohibit bathing, or the pollu tion of water by any other means, prohibit the grazing of horses or ponies, prohibit the teasing or annoying of ani mals or birds kept in the park, prohibit the commission of any nuisance, or the molestation or annoyance of any person resorting to the park etc.
It was about 700 feet from the main part of the lake.
That is why I prefaced this Judgment with the observation that this was an avoid able exercise.
The International Association for the Protection of Nature and Natural Re sources calculates that now, on an average, one species or sub species is lost every year.
What is important is that the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden never doubted the authenticity of the documents nor was any question ever raised to suggest that the terms of the grant were other than those mentioned in the letters.
Industrialisation, urbanisation, explosion of population, overexploitation of resources, depletion of traditional sources of energy and raw materials and the search for new sources of energy and raw materials, the disruption of natural ecological balances, the destruc tion of a multitude of animal and plant species for economic reasons and sometimes for no good reason at all are factors which have contributed to environmental deterioration.
The Chief Minister 's attention was expressly drawn to the Managing Committee 's first Resolution expressing its opposition to the proposal to give the land for the construction of a hotel and detailing the objections and the Chief Minister had expressly noted that all facili ties necessary for the Zoo would be provided by the Govern ment.
Shri Ashoka Basu, M.L.A., Shri K.P. Banerjee and Shri A.K. Das abstained from participation in the proceedings.
jobbery or nepotism.
But where it is so satisfied, it would be the plainest duty of the Court under the Constitution to invalidate the governmental action.
Every shining pine needle, every sandy shore, every mist in the dark woods, every clearing and humming insect is holy in the memory and experience of my people.
