The scheme of section 12(2) of the and the scheme of section 11(1) of the Act, which is trader consideration before us, were the same.
That was one way of solving the intricate difficulty of inter se seniority.
Clause (b), however, provided that every ministerial railway serv ant who had entered the Government service on or before 31st March, 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned either in sub clause (i) or sub clause (ii) thereof was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years.
Sub section (2A) of section 48 has given statutory recognition to the (Staff) Regulations of 1960 and in particular to Regulation 19(2) as amended in 1977 which is impugned in these proceedings.
Sub section
Sub section
Sub section
vs Union of India & Ors. etc.
The High Court of Delhi has rejected two petitions in which the very question raised in this case arose for consideration, namely, N.L. Aneja vs Union of India and Others, (Civil Writ No. 1911 of 1986) and H.S. Kochar vs L.I.C. of lndia & Ors., (C.W. No. 1660 of 1986) at the stage of admission itself giving reasons, though short, for its orders.
Even before clause (bb) was actually introduced into the Act with retrospective effect by Act 17 of 1957 the Corporation had promulgated the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Regulations, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as 'the (Staff) Regulations, 1956 ').
That clause (b) of the said rule applied also to the employees of ex companies and ex State railways which were taken over by the Indian Rail way Administration is clear from the note attached to clause (b) of rule 2046 which provided that for the purpose of that clause the expression 'Government Service ' included service rendered in ex company and ex State railways and in a former provincial Government.
(2) of section 11 is a part of that process, involving as it does the integration of the Corporation 's staff and labour force.
v The State of Haryana & Ors.
vs The State of Haryana & Ors., (supra) appointed in the local bodies Schools before 'provincialisation ', challenged the validity of the 1961 Rules.
The sub section envisages alteration by the Corporation.
In State of Punjab vs Joginder Singh, [1963] Supp. 2 S.C.R. 169 this Court upheld the validity of the 196 1 Rules repelling challenge under Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
221 On behalf of the 1st Respondent reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in M/s. British Paints (India) Ltd. vs The Workmen, ; in support of his case that there should be no discrimination amongst the employees of an establishment with regard to the age of superannuation.
The High Court of Kerala was right in not following the decision of the High Court of Allahabad which is now under appeal.
The High Court of Mysore struck down a part of the new note only on the ground that it was discriminatory and directed that the Respondent, A. Pitchumani should be allowed to continue in the service till he completed the age of 60 years.
or after April 1, 1966 and the remaining twenty per cent by train examiners from grade 'D '.
217 In O.P. No. 5295 of 1985 and connected cases on the file of the High Court of Kerala which was decided on 4.2.
(2) of section 11, by its first limb, confers power on the Central Government to alter the scales of remuneration and other terms and conditions of service applicable to transferred employees.
A.I.R. 1973 CAL.
The above clause was introduced into the Act with retrospective effect along with the new sub 194 section (2) of section 11 of the Act.
All life, including administrative life, involves experiment, trial and error, but within the leading strings of fundamental rights, and, absent unconstitutional 'exces ses ', judicial correction is not right.
(2) of section 11 contained the words "from time to time" and that these words were subsequently deleted when enact ment took place.
This decision has no relevance to the present case although the High Court has relied on it in deciding this case.
Thereafter sub section (2) of sec tion 11 of the Act read as follows: "(2) Where the Central Government is satisfied that for the purpose of securing uniformity in the scales of remuner ation and the other terms and conditions of service applica ble to employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to, and vested in the Corporation, it is necessary so to do, or that, in the interest of the Corpora tion and its policy holders, a reduction in the remuneration payable, or a revision of the other terms and 193 conditions of service applicable, to employees or any class of them is called for, the Central Government may, notwith standing anything contained in sub section (1), or in the , or in any other law for the time being in force, or in any award, settlement or agree ment for the time being in force, alter (whether by way of reduction or otherwise) the remuneration and the other terms and conditions of service to such extent and in such manner as it thinks fit, and if the alteration.
On February 13, 1961, the Punjab Government promulgat ed under the proviso to Article 309 of 209 the Constitution, the Punjab Educational Service (Provincia lised Cadre) Class III Rules, giving them retrospective effect from October 1, 1957.
From the post of Assistant Administrative Officer he was promoted to the post of Administrative Officer in June, 1971 and was further promoted as Assistant Divisional Manager on 18.7.1978.
Clause (b) of sub section (2) of section 49 of the Act in particular conferred power on the Corporation to make regulations as regards the method of recruitment of employ ees and agents of the Corporation and the terms and condi tions of such employees or agents.
vs The State of Haryana & Ors., ; The facts of that case were these.
The new sub section (2) of section 11 of the Act was further modi fied by Act 36 of 1957.
Retirement age for new employees: There will be no distinction between Class 111 and Class IV 'transferred employees ' and Class III and Class IV employees who entered the service of the Corporation on or after 1.9.1956 in regard to retirement age which shall be 60" After the above settlement was arrived at regulation 19 of the (Staff) Regulations, 1960, which had been brought into force with effect from July 1, 1960, was suitably amended to bring it in conformity with the settlement.
Unless the statute provided for such relief, the weight of that burden could conceivably cripple the successful working of the Corporation from its inception as a business organisation.
On December 27, 1967 the Indian Railway Administration substituted the note attached to clause (b) of rule 2046 by the new note which read thus: "For the purpose of this clause the expression 'Government Service ' includes service rendered in a former provincial gov ernment and in ex company and ex State Rail ways, if the rules of the Company or the State had a provision similar to Clause (b) above." The effect of the new note was that an employee who satis fied the condition in sub section (i) or sub clause (ii) of clause (b) was entitled to continue upto 60 years after December 23, 1967 only if the rules of the company in which he was formerly working had a provision similar to clause (b) of rule 2046 which fixed the age of retirement at 60 years.
The second limb of sub section
(2) of section 11 can be exercised more than once.
The Court rejected the petition stating that the management of Air India having taken a decision "to phase out U.K. incumbents when they attain the age of 45", it was not discriminatory to Air Hostesses of Indian origin who were to retire at the age of 35 years and was not unconstitutional.
The scheme of the sections in Chapter IV indicates generally that Parliament has appointed the Cen tral Government as the effective and direct instrumentality for bringing about the transfer and integration in the different sectors of that process.
The High Court has negatived it.
In the 210 course of its decision this Court while rejecting the con tention of the petitioners observed thus at pages 635 636: "The principles on which discrimination and breach of articles 14 and 16 can be said to result have been by now so well settled that we do not think it necessary to repeat them here once again.
This regula tion was made in supersession of all other earlier regula tions.
Such classification for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon the date of entry into services is not, therefore, something which is unusual and such classification becomes necessary on account of historical facts and the need for treating the employees in a fair and just way.
There is provision for the transfer of the assets and liabilities pertaining to the business, of provident funds, 206 superannuation and other like funds, of the services of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation and also of the services of existing employees of chief agents of the insurers to the Corporation, and finally for the payment of compensation to the insurers for the transfer of the busi ness to the Corporation.
An employee in Class III of insurer could be continued upto sixty.
Petitioners have not contended and perhaps could not legitimately contend, that the two classes of officers stand at par.
Accordingly, rule 2046 (F.R. 56) of the Indian Railway Fundamental Rules had to be modified.
(2) . . . . . . . (cc).
vil Appeal No. 10761077 of 1987.
Hence the age of retirement should be the same in the case of both such promoters.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
" Sub section (1) of section 11 of the Act provided that every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in the Corpora tion and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business immediately before the appointed day, i.e., September 1, 1956, would on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corpora tion, and would hold his office therein by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and condi tions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if the Act had not been passed, and would continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation was terminated and until his remunera tion, terms and conditions were duly altered by the Corpora tion.
While the first limb of the sub section provides for securing uniformity among the transferred employees in regard to the scales of remu neration and other terms and conditions of service, the second limb provides that if after such uniformity has been secured, or even in the process of securing such uniformity, the Central Government finds that the interests of the Corporation and its policy holders require a reduction in the remuneration payable or revision of the other terms and conditions of service applicable to those employees, it may make an order accordingly.
In the decision, re ferred to above, the facts were these.
A discrimination made by a State between the employees who are directly recruited to the service of the State and the employees whose services are taken over by the State on the taking over of the institutions where they were working has been held to be not unconstitutional by this Court in Ram Lal Wadhwa & Anr.
If through historical reasons the teachers had remained in two separate catego ries, the classification of the provincialised teachers into a separate cadre could not be said to infringe article 14 and article 16.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
The observation made by Pathak, J. in the course of his judgment that "there is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section (2) in respect of transferred employees.being struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees" is signifi cant.
The decision of this Court in Workmen of the Bharat Petrole um 222 Corporation Ltd. (Refining Division) Bombay vs Bharat Petro leum Corporation Ltd. and Another, ; no doubt lays down that under the modern conditions there is a general trend in favour of raising the age of retirement in the case of employees in industrial establishments.
It reads thus: "Superannution and Retirement: 19(1).
Clause 6 of that order originally read as follows: "6.
The next question for consideration is whether the fixation of 58 years as the age of superannuation in the case of the employees who entered the service after 1st September, 1956 is unreasonable.
There was to be no further recruitment to that cadre and all vacancies arising in that cadre were to be replenished by direct recruitment to the State cadre.
This new sub regulation (2) of regulation 19 read as fol lows: "(2).
It provided for making regulations to provide for all matters for which provision was expedient for the purposes of giving effect to the provisions of the Act.
Under Article 32, this Court is the constitutional sentinel not the national ombudsman.
In the Workmen case itself, this Court did not extend the benefit of super annuation at the age of 60 to all clerical staff but limited the same to that category of employees working in the Refin ery Division, Bombay.
Admittedly, the first limb of sub section
While dealing with this question, the Court can take judicial notice of the differ ent ages of retirement prevailing in the several services in India.
" The above clause 6 was substituted by a new clause on 25.11.1962 which read as follows: "6.
That rule was, therefore, substituted by a new rule on January 11, 1967.
1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as 'the Corporation ') which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may, if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so, direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months ' notice or salary in lieu thereof.
We find that the distinc tion between the two classes is recognised by Parliament even as late as 1981 when it amended section 49 of the Act by deleting clause (bb) of sub section (2) thereof and by 215 amending section 48 of the Act by introducing clause (cc) in subsection (2) and the new sub section (2A) in it.
The functional focus of section 11 205 of the LIC Act will dispel scope for interpretative exer cises unrelated to the natural setting in which the problem occurs.
(2) An employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age, but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter, if his efficiency is found to have been im paired.
Accordingly, the President of India agreed to release 16 persons from the service of the Government of India to enable the Corporation to appoint them in its service by the Order of the Central Government dated 25th February, 1964.
The standpoint of the second limb of the sub section, as its language plainly indicates, is provided by the inter ests of the Corporation and its policy holders.
" The modification made by the new sub regulation (2) of regulation 19 empowered the appointing authority to extend at its discretion the service of any employee of the Corpo ration belonging to the Class I or Class II categories appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 for one year at a time upto 60 years of age.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
The regulations and other provisions as in force immediately before the commencement of the Life Insurance Corporation (Amendment) Act, 1981, with respect to the terms and conditions of service of employees and agents of the Corporation including those who became employees and agents of the Corpo ration on the appointed day under this Act, shall be deemed to be rules made under clause (cc) of sub section (2) and shall, subject to the other provisions of this section, have effect accordingly." (underlining by us) empha sis supplied Clause (cc) of section 48(2) of the Act, however, has been given retrospective effect from 20th June, 1979.
On a careful consideration of all 223 the aspects of the case we feel that the High Court erred in striking down regulation 19(2) of the (Staff) Regulations, 1960 as amended in the year 1977, and in directing the Corporation to continue the 1st Respondent in its service till he completed the age of 60 years.
The provision is a part of the scheme enacted in Chapter IV providing for the trans fer of existing life insurance business from the insurers to the Corporation, and the attendant concomitants of that process.
It was urged on behalf of the Corporation and the Union of India that the transferred employees and the employees who joined the service after 1st September, 1956 belonged to two distinct and separate classes which had been treated differently throughout for valid reasons.
They on promotion form one integrated cadre of Class I officers.
On the absorption of the services of the servants of the previous railway companies it became necessary for the Indian Railway Administration to frame rules with regard to their conditions of service including the determination of the age of retirement of those railway employees.
This stand is not tenable for more than one reason.
Ltd., directed the retirement age of the clerical staff of the Refinery Division of respondent 1 to be fixed at 60 years.
He was retired from service on 30th of June, 1986 during the pendency of these appeals.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
(2) An employee appointed to the service of the 198 Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age; but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter, if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
In the view of the majority in that case the two cadres started as independent services, they were never integrated into one service and, therefore, the dissimilarity of the treatment by the Rules was not a denial Of equal opportunity.
