There is no warrant for the conclusion that officiating Government servants in Class I or Class II service or post are outside the purview of sub clause (i).
Learned counsel for the petitioner does not dispute the position that a person who is in Class I or Class II service or post is in such service or post as covered by sub clause (i).
The possibility of a reversion to the substantive post is not germane to the exercise of power contained in F.R. 56.
(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
Fundamental Rule 56(j) under which notice was given provides: "(j) Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule, the appropriate authority shall, if it is of the opinion that it is in the public interest so to do, have the absolute right to retire any Government servant by giving him notice of not less than three months in writ ing or three months ' pay and allowances in lieu of such notice; (i) if he is in Class I or Class II service or post (and had entered Government service before attaining the age 636 of thirty five years), after he has attained the age of fifty years; (ii) in any other case after he has attained the age of fifty five years; . . . . . . . . . . ." The appropriate authority is entitled to exercise power under clause (j) in the case of a Government servant in Class I or Class II service or post where he entered into service before attaining the age of 35 years after the said servant attained the age of 50 years; and in other cases after he has attained the age of 55 years.
Even if the writ petition is allowed and the order of compulsory retirement is set aside the petitioner cannot go back to service.
6251 & 8189 OF 1981 Each of the petitioners in these two writ applications under Article 32 of the Constitution was employed in the Central Public Works Department in the Ministry of Works and Housing of Government of India and has been compulsorily retired under Fundamental Rule 56(j).
1976 and 29.2.
Therefore, sub clause (1) was not contravened when the order was made.
In short, an officiating Govern ment servant does not really belong to Class I or Class II service until he acquires a right thereon.
WRIT PETITION NOS.
(Union of India vs K.R. Tahiliani and Anr.) [1980] 1 SLR 847.
No. 7338 of 1981.
Admittedly, he was holding a class II post when the impugned order was served on him.
When a Government servant belonging to a Class I or Class II service or post on regular basis has to be retired compulsorily, Rule 56(j)(i) comes to the rescue of the Government.
It has been argued before us that as the petitioner was holding an officiating appointment in Class 117 he could not have been compulsorily retired under sub clause (i).
If the condi tion indicated in sub clause (i) is satisfied, namely, the Government servant is in Class I or Class II service or post and he had entered into service before attaining the age of 35 years, and has attained the age of fifty, the further condition that he must substantively belong to the two classes of service or post cannot be introduced into the scheme.
If the officia tion is not brought to an end by reverting the Government servant to his substantive post before the power of compul sory retirement is exercised, the Government servant con cerned must be taken to be in Class I or Class II service or post at the relevant time and would come within the ambit of sub clause (i).
The vires of Rule 56(j) of the Fundamental Rules as also the power to compulsorily retire a public servant have been upheld by this Court and do not require to be re examined.
On 3.7.1961, he was further promoted as officiating Executive Engineer in Class I service but on 4.9.1965, he was reverted to the post of Assistant Engineer in officiating position and was con tinuing in that post when he was compulsorily retired.
Such judgments have become final and Union of India has given effect to the decisions of the Delhi High Court.
