(b) of section 630( l) wholly redundant.
(a) of section 630(1) was referable to existing officer or employee of a company, while cl.
(1) of section 630 is the preservation of the property of a company by the creation of two distinct offences by clauses (a) and (b) which arise under different sets of circumstances, and it would be rendered nugatory by projecting cl.
(1) of section 630, namely, 'if any officer or employee of a company ' qualify 'the acts of delinquency ' specified in clauses (a) and (b) thereof.
(1) of section 630 of the Act.
(1) of section 630 of the Act.
(1) of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
(1) of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section (2), also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section
(b) contemplates a case where an officer or employee of a company having any property of a company in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the 176 articles and authorised by the Act.
The by section 630, enacts: "630.
(b), even though cls.
There is also no warrant for the construction placed by the High Court of Calcutta on the words 'any such property ' occurring in cl.
(a) into cl.
(b) of sub section
" The learned Judge (Ashok Agarwal, J.) observes that that has been the consistent view of the High Court and has referred to the subsequent decisions of Khatri j J. and Kurdukar, J.
(iii) The entitlement of an officer to the property of the company is contingent on the right and capacity of the officer by virtue of his employment which is transformed into the actual possession of the property and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment.
(1) of section 630 of H 172 the Act, the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum vs Devi Ranjan Jha & Anr., held that it refers only to the existing officers and employees of a company.
(1) of section 630 of the Act makes it an offence where any officer or employee of a company wrongfully withholds possession of 175 such property of the company.
There is therefore no warrant to give a restrictive meaning to the term 'officer or employee ' appearing in sub section
Sub section
(ii) Clause (b) is equally independent and distinct from cl.
Case No. 76/S/1986 and dispose it of as expeditiously as possible and in any event, not later than four months from today.
(1) of section 630 must be interpreted to mean not only the present officers and employees of a company but also to include past officers and employees of the company.
This is the function of cl.
which is an offence under section 630(l)(b) of the Act, as rightly pointed out by V.S. Kotwal, J. in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh (supra).
(b) was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations, as suggested.
The learned Magistrate by his order dated May 22, 1986 took cognizance of the complaint against the petitioner and directed issue of process.
The High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum 's case obviously fell into an error in seeking to curtail the ambit of section 630(l)(b) by giving a restrictive meaning to the terms 'officer or employee ' which must take its colour from the context in which it appears.
(b) as taking in the property mentioned in cl.
Penalty for wrongful withholding of property (1) If any officer or employee of a company (a) wrongfully obtains possession of any property of a company; or D (b) having any such property in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by this Act; he shall, on the complaint of the company or any creditor or contributory thereof, be punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
N.G. Chaudhuri, J. speaking for himself and G.C. Chatterjee, J. held that the opening words of sub section
In contrast, cl.
(a), namely, where an officer or employee of a company wrongfully obtains possession of any property of the company during the course of his employment, to which he is not entitled.
(a) i.e. property wrongfully obtained.
The Court repelled the contention that section 630 of the Act applies only to the existing officers and employees of the company and not to former officers and employees, and that the phrase 'any such property ' used in cl.
Kotwal, J.
By a curious process of reasoning, the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum 's case held that section 630 of the Act applies only to the existing officers and employees and not to those whose employment has been terminated.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SEN, J.
(I) of section 630 of the Act which defeats the very purpose and object with which it had been introduced.
(b) with the capacity of creating penal liability 4 embracing the case of an existing employee or officer of the company.
(a) viz. property of a company wrongfully taken possession of by a present officer or employee of the company.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2, 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
(1) by clauses (a) and (b) creates two distinct and separate offences.
The reasoning of the learned Judges does not bear scrutiny and renders cl.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
(b) as applicable to such property of a company, possession of which is wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company i.e. refers to the whole of cl.
