Under section 108 of the said Act, the lessee is entitled to be put in possession of the property.
Section 105 of the defined a lease of immovable property as a transfer of a right to enjoy such property made for a certain time in consideration of a price paid or promised.
vs M/s. Bright Bros. (Pvt).
Such a proposition of law, it was further concluded by this Court, was both novel and incomprehensible.
The licence fee was fixed.
It permitted user only for 20 hours.
Clause (12) is significant which gave to the licensor the right to enter upon the premises and inspect the same at any time.
In determining whether an agreement creates between the parties the relationship of landlord and tenant or merely that of licensor and licensee the decisive consideration is the intention of the parties.
There was no error of fact as such on that.
It was further held that filing an application under section 41 of the 1065 might in certain circumstances have the effect of putting an end to the licence if it was subsisting on the date of its filing.
good deal of submission was made before us that if it was a lease and not a licence, then this point could be taken in aid of the submission that the Court had to jurisdiction, and there was no estoppel.
Civil Appeal No. 1377 of 1982.
A lease involves a transfer of an interest in land, Subba Rao, J. as the learned Chief Justice then was, observed in that case.
The period of leave and licence was to commence from 1st of September, 1965 to 31st of August, 1970 and it was further submitted that the licensee and the licensor shall not terminate the said agreement earlier save and except on the ground of breach of any of the terms and conditions written therein.
In any event this is a possible view that could be taken.
The High Court affirmed the decision of this Court and upheld the order of the Court of Small Causes and ordered eviction.
Restriction in the hours of work negates the case for a lease.
This appeal by special leave arises from the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay dated 17th of November, 1980.
" Denning, L.J. also reiterated the same decision.
In support of this appeal Sree R.F. Nariman very laboriously took us through the documents.
In the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail as we find no ground to interfere with the decision of the High Court.
The learned Judge recorded further that it was practice in the Court of Small Causes, Bombay of using the expression 1063 "B.C.".
The respondent had filed a revision petition under section 115 of C.P.C. in the High Court.
On or about 9th November, 1970, the respondent herein filed an ejectment proceeding against the appellant under section 41 of the .
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI, J.
This is a salutary test.
It was futher held that a person continuing in occupation of such premises after revocation of the licence was still liable to pay compensation or damages for its use and occupation.
Lord Greene MR had observed this in Booker vs Palmer, at 676,677.
Clause 2 of the said agreement recites that the licensee had agreed to use the premises as above and merely for the purpose of workshop business.
This decision was approved in appeal by this Court in Sohan Lal Naraindas vs Laxmidas Raghunath Gadit, where this Court reiterated that the test of exclusive possession was important point.
On or about 9th of November, 1970 the owner of the premises filed an ejectment proceeding against one Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain and obtained a decree.
On or about 9th of February, 1965 a fresh document of that date, was executed and it is alleged that the appellant continued by virtue of that agreement.
It was only when the person was in occupation by permission of the grantor that after the recovery of the permission a suit for possession could have been instituted under section 41 of the said Act.
This Court emphasised the if the exclusive possession to which a person was entitled under an agreement with a landlord was coupled with an interest in the property, the agreement would be construed not as a mere licence but as a lease.
It was a possible view.
