The higher qualifications for the higher grade, which may be either academic qualifications or experience based on length of service reasonably sustain the classification of the officers into two grades with different scales of pay.
It was also admitted by the Delhi Administration in that case that the duties of driver constable of the Delhi Police Force were onerous.
Article 39(d) of the Constitution proclaims "equal pay for equal work" .
This Court while granting relief to the workmen observed (at 642) : "The Central Government, the State Government and likewise, all public sector undertakings are expected to function like model and enlightened employers and arguments such as those which were advanced before us that the principle of equal pay for equal work is an abstract doctrine which cannot be enforced in a court of law should ill come from the mouths of the State and State Undertakings.
Under the rules framed by the Chief Justice of the High Court, Bench Secretaries Grade I are selected by a Selection Committee.
vs State of U.P., , this Court found fault with the Central Government for not giving the casual workers engaged in Nehru Yuvak the same salary and conditions of service as enjoyed by class IV employees regularly appointed against sanctioned posts.
Art.39(d) of the Constitution proclaims `equal pay for equal work for both men and women ' as a Directive Principle of State Policy.
vs State of Haryana, WP No. 455 and connected petitions of 1987 of DD 2.6.1988 and Y.K. Mehta vs UOI, WP No. 1239 of 1979 and connected petitions DD 26.8.1988.
It is the duty of the State to see that the under privileged or weaker sections get their dues.
These equality clauses of the Constitution must mean something to every one.
I SCR 10l.
" In Randhir Singh, the petitioner was a driver constable in the Delhi Police Force under the Delhi Administration.
Indeed, by reason of their investiture with the 'powers, functions and privileges of PG NO 301 a police officer ', their duties and responsibilities were found to be more arduous.
vs UOI, WP No. 1230 of 1987 disposed of dt. 10.2.1988; Jaipal and Ors.
This article declares that there shall be equality before law and equal protection of the law and implicit in it is the further principle that there must be equal pay for work of equal value.
" PG NO 305 In the present case, all Bench Secretaries may do the same work, but their quality of work may differ.
article 14 of the Constitution enjoins the State not to deny any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws and article 16 declares that there shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointments to any office under the State.
The selection is based on merit with due regard to seniority.
There is selection grade for District Judges.
As observed by Hegde and Mukherjee, JJ.
There is senior time scale in Indian Administrative Service.
This article and other like provisions in the Directive Principles are "conscience of our Constitution.
Civil Appeal No. 56 of 1987.
Writ Petition No. 4211 of 1983.
The Government order by which the classification was done itself provided that duty and responsibility of Bench Secretary of Grade II be the same as of Grade I shall be seniority.
article l4 permits reasonable classification founded on different basis.
" In Surinder Singh vs Engineer in Chief, CPWD, , the case of poor daily wage workers employed for serveral years by the Central Public Works Department CPWD came up for consideration before this Court.
The case of the petitioners for being put in the revised scale of Rs. 1100 1600 from the date on which newly created posts of Professors in sister disciplines in IVRI and other institutes were created and filled up in revised scale is unanswerable and must be cunceded " In P. Savita vs Union of lndia, the artificial division of senior draftsmen in the Ministry of Defence Production with unequal scales of pay for the same work was struck down.
O. Chinnappa Reddy, J. observed that the classification of officers into two grades with different scales of pay based either on academic qualification or experience on length of service is sustainable.
There is super time scale in other like services.
It is a matter affecting the civil services in general.
The Registrar of the High Court while forwarding the memorandum has suggested that they should also be given the same pay scale which is given to Superintendents i.e. Rs.515 40 715 or to the Section Officers i.e. Rs.350 750.
The High Court suggested "that in view of financial exigencies the Government may grant for the time being pay scale to 10 PG NO 292 Bench Secretaries as admissible to Section Officers.
The pay scale of professors underwent revision.
The petitioners therein were holding the posts of Professors in the Indian Veterinary Research Institute under the Indian Council of Medical Research.
He or she learns also by experience as much as by other means.
evaluation of duties and responsibilities of the respective posts.
The vice is not in the method of selection but in creation of two different groups without any intelligible differentia.
In Randhir Singh vs Union of India & Others [I982] 3 SCR 298 Chinnappa Reddy, J. said (at 304): PG NO 300 "It is true that the principle of `equal pay for equal work ' is not expressly declared by our Constitution to be a fundamental right.
On February 1, 1973, the Pay Commission submitted its report.
The classification made under the Rules, therefore, cannot be said to be violative of the right to have equal pay for equal work.
A Bench Secretary or for that matter any officer who puts in longer years of service gets more salary than his juniors but if a senior performing the same duty as his juniors is put in different higher scale then it results in invidious classification in the same group.
Rs. 150 350 was recommended for Bench Secretaries as against Rs.200 400 for Section Officers.
The classification based on experience is a reasonable classification.
