The law already declared by this Court, which we reiterate, makes it clear that t he Tribunals have no such discretion or power.
The report of e n quiry was forwarded to the competent authority who aft er giving an opportunity of being heard dismissed the respon d ent from service.
One of the grounds was held to be irrelevant.
Consequently, the SLP of the respon d ent is dismissed.
" The learned Judge also said (at 227): "Now it is settled by the decision of this Court in State of Orissa vs Bidyabhushan Mohapatra, that if the ord er of a punishing authority can be supported on any finding as to substantial misdemeanour for which the punishment can be imposed, it is not for the Court to consider whether the 33 charge proved alone would have weighed with the authority in imposing the punishment.
The High Court observed: "That the findings in respect of charges l(a) and l(e) 29 should be set aside as being opposed to the rules of natur al justice, but the findings in respect of charges l(c) a nd l(d) and charge 2 need not be disturbed.
While Suraj Singh by impersonation was receiving the pay of Ashok Kumar, he was recognised by the Cashier since he kn ew him personally.
Shah, J. observed ( at 665 666): " . . in our view the High Court had no pow er to direct the Governor of Orissa to reconsider the order of dismissal.
The Tribunal however, h as held that the respondent was guilty of entering the name of Ashok Kumar in the pay roll of May 4969.
" The last contention that the respondent fails into t he category of a workman and the Tribunal could exercise t he powers of an industrial court for giving appropriate reli ef is unavailable in this case, since the respondent had ma de his choice of forum and was even otherwise dealt with und er the Government Servants (Conduct) Rules which are undispu t edly applicable to him.
16. ' The expression "all courts" in this connection includ es civil courts and High Court but not the Supreme Court.
Section 27 provides for finality of t he orders of the Tribunal.
Section 27 provides for execution of orders.
Mr. Ashri, learned counsel for t he respondent, however, justified the discretion exercised by the Tribunal in awarding the lesser punishment.
Civil Appeal No. 1709 of 1988.
The Tribunal m ay remit the matter to the competent authority for reconsider a tion or by itself substitute one of the penalties provid ed under clause (a).
Section 29 provides for automatic transfer of all pending proceedin gs in the High Court under Articles 226 and 227, relating to service matters (except appeals) to the Tribunal for adjud i cation.
It is neither le ss nor more.
Indeed, the contention for the respondent is unsustainab le in view of the decisions of this Court.
The adequacy of penalty unless it is malafide is certain ly not a matter for the Tribunal to concern with.
The High Court remitted t he matter to the Government for fresh consideration for awar d ing a proper punishment.
Section 3(2) 28 comprehensively defines 'service matters ' to mean all ma t ters relating to conditions of service including the disc i plinary matters.
The respondent moved the High Court of Himachal Prade sh under Article 226 challenging the findings of Inquiry off i cer as well as the order of dismissal passed by the comp e tent authority.
T he show cause notice issued to the corporation mentioned t wo grounds for supersession.
Ordinarily, whe re the disciplinary enquiry is shown to have been held in violation of principles of natural justice, the enqui ry would be vitiated and the order based on such enquiry wou ld be quashed with liberty to hold fresh enquiry.
The service matters are of 26 persons appointed to the public service and posts.
In State of Orissa vs Bidyabhushan, [1963] Suppl 1 S CR 648 the enquiry was conducted against the petitioner on several charges and eventually he was dismissed from ser v ice.
He was incharge of preparing the pay bills and other bills of the work charg ed employees of the project.
He was found guilty of t he charge framed against him.
WITH (SLP (Civil) No. 6998 of 1988) V.C. Mahajan, Mrs. Indu Goswami, C.V. Subba Rao, P. Parmeshwaran for the Appellant in C.A. No. 1709 of 1988.
The Court is not concerned to decide whether the punishment imposed, provided it is just i fied by the rules, is appropriate having regard to t he misdemeanour established." So much is, we think, established law on the scope of jurisdiction and the amplitude of powers of the Tribuna l.
From an analysis of secs.
The person unsuccessfully moved the High Court with a wr it petition challenging the order of the Commissioner a nd finally appealed to the Supreme Court.
Section 28 excludes t he jurisdiction of all Courts except the Supreme Court.
Accordingly, two incremen ts with future effect, of the appellant were ordered to be withheld.
In the intere st of 25 justice, it is necessary to modify the punishment awarded to the applicant.
This decision is, therefore, no authority for t he proposition that the High Court or the Tribunal has juri s diction to impose any punishment to meet the ends of ju s tice.
If the enquiry h as been properly held the question of adequacy or reliabili ty of the evidence cannot be convassed before the High Court.
Mr. Mah a jan, learned counsel for the Central Government urged th at the Tribunal has no powers to interfere with the punishme nt imposed by the disciplinary authority on the ground that it is disproportionate to the proved misdemeanour.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K. JAGANNATHA SHETTY, J.
Where the person, without enquiry is di s missed, removed or reduced in rank solely on the basis of conviction by a criminal court, the Tribunal may examine t he adequacy of the penalty imposed in the light of the convi c tion and sentence inflicted on the person.
