As regards the order of the Madh ya Pradesh High Court dated 4th April, 1983 .it may be point ed out that the said High Court in an earlier writ petiti on being Misc.
(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
vs Union of India & Ors.
Apparently, after t he coming into force of the 107 order dated 28th December, 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January, 1966 promotions could not be made just on compl e tion of 2 years ' satisfactory service under the earli er circular dated 6th November, 1962 the same having be en superseded by the later circular.
The learned Judges pointed o ut that it was admitted that the conditions of service applic a ble to the case of the appellants were governed by t he Indian Ordnance Factories (Recruitment and Conditions of Service of Class III Personnel) Rules, 1956 (hereinaft er referred to as the Rules) framed by the President of Ind ia under Article 309 of the Constitution.
Petition No. 596 of 1978 had disallowed t he relief for the petitioners of that writ petition bei ng treated as Chargeman II on completion of two years ' servi ce as Supervisor 'A ' by its order dated 16th April, 1979 as is apparent from the said judgment dated 4th April, 1983 b ut the subse 106 quent writ petitions which seem to have been filed after t he decision of this Court dated 2nd February, 1981 in Civ il Appeal No. 441 of 1981 were allowed in view of the aforesa id decision of this Court.
9356 57 of 1983.
5987 92 of 1986 were filed in this Court by the Union of India a nd were dismissed on 28th July, 1986.
The requirements of rule 8 in brief have already been indicated above.
It reads: "Heard counsel.
vs Sh.
It wa s, inter alia, urged on behalf of the petitioners that t he situation brought about by the rules of July 30, 1959 co n stituted variation to their prejudice in the conditions of service applicable to them immediately prior to the reorga n isation of the State and the Rules were consequently i n valid.
The ord er dated 28th December, 1965 which provided a minimum period of service of three years in the lower grade for promotion to the next higher grade and the circular dated 20th Janua ry 1966 which provided that promotions in future will be e f fected in accordance with the normal rules and not merely on completion of 2 years ' satisfactory continuous service h ad the effect of doing away with the accelerated chance of promotion and relegating Supervisors 'A ' in the matter of promotion to the normal position as it obtained under t he Rules.
It is now n ot disputed that the appellants of this appeal have in purs u ance of the order of this Court dated 2nd February, 19 81 been given a back date promotion to the post of Chargeman II synchronising with the dates of completion of their 2 yea rs of service as Supervisor 'A '.
Rule 12 provides 104 that no appointment to the posts to which these rules app ly shall be made otherwise than, as specified in these rule section This right of promotion as provided by the Rules was neith er affected nor could be affected by the circular.
This contention was neg a tived and Wanchoo, J., (as he then was), speaking on beha lf of this Court observed: "It is said on behalf of the r e spondents that as their chances of promotion have be en affected their conditions of service have been changed to their disadvantage.
vs The State of Mah a rashtra & Ors.; , that in the absence of legislative Rules it was competent to the State Governme nt to take a 103 decision in the exercise of its executive power under Art i cle 162 of the Constitution.
This right was co n ferred by Rule 7 which inter alia provides that subject to the exception contained in Rule 11, vacancies in the pos ts enumerated therein will normally be filled by promotion of employees in the grade immediately below in accordance wi th the provisions of Rule 8.
In view of the foregoing discussion, we find it diff i cult to grant the reliefs prayed for in the aforesaid 'wr it petitions simply on the basis of the judgment of this Cou rt dated 2nd February, 1981 in Civil Appeal No. 441 of 198 1.
the leg al position pointed out above the aforesaid circular could n ot be treated to be one affecting adversely any condition of service of the Supervisors 'A '.
In the case of Ramchandra Shankar Deodhar & Ors ., (supra) the petitioners and other allocated Tehsildars fr om ex Hyderabad State had under the Notification of the R aj Pramukh dated September 15, 1955 all the vacancies in t he posts of Deputy Collector in the ex Hyderabad State avai l able to them for promotion but under subsequent rules of July 30, 1959 fifty per cent of the vacancies were to be filled by direct recruitment and only the remaining fif ty per cent were available for promotion and that too on div i sional basis.
The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
Since the order dated 2 nd February, 1981 passed in Civil Appeal No. 441 of 1981, so to speak, constitutes the basis for the writ petitions me n tioned above, it is in our opinion expedient to reprodu ce the said order.
There is a further averment in the said counter affidavit that pet i tioners were duly considered in their turn and their nam es were brought on the approved panel.
It w as further urged that the petitioners of these writ petitio ns were on the basis of the Rules considered for promotion a nd it is not disputed that all of them have in due course be en promoted as Chargeman II and some of them have even be en promoted to higher posts.
Against t he aforesaid judgment of the Madhya Pradesh High Court dat ed 4th April, 1983 Special Leave Petitions (Civil) Nos.
Howeve r, merely on completion of two years ' service a Supervisor ' A ' could not claim automatic promotion.
Having heard learned counsel for the parties we fi nd substance in the submission made by the learned counsel f or the respondents.
No formal foundation has been raised in t he pleadings in the writ petition in support of the grou nd based on Article 16 of the Constitution.
Ref: This office confidential No. 673/A/NG dt.
The writ petition w as contested by the respondents thereto inter alia on t he ground that under the rules of promotion from Supervisor ' A ' to Chargeman II first Departmental Promotion Commit.tee at the factory level and then a Departmental Committee at t he Central level screens the service record of each of t he Supervisors 'A ' who comes within the range of eligibili ty and then finally the Director General of Ordnance Factori es draws up a list and sanctions promotions.
3812 19 of 1983 with regard to a matter relevant for promotion.
On the other han d, promotion depended, inter alia, on availability of posts a nd the incumbent being found fit by the Departmental Promoti on Committee for being included in the selection list.
it case for initiating any procee d ings for contempt against the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by OJHA, J.
vs State of Mysore & Ors., 82 and Sant Ram Sharma vs State of Rajasthan & Anr.
While repelling this submission the Constituti on Bench held: "All that happened as a result of making promotions to t he posts of Deputy Collectors divisionwise and limiting su ch promotions to 50 per cent of the total number of vacanci es in the posts of Deputy Collector was to reduce the chanc es of promotion available to the petitioners.
We see no justific a tion for any such differential treatment being given to t he appellants.
This, it was urged, affected the ir chances of promotion which were protected under the provi so to Section 115, sub section (7).
The question of promotion of Diploma holders in Mech/Elec.
It h as further been stated therein that after the newly creat ed posts were thus filled by promotion, chances of promotion of those who were appointed subsequently diminished and f or want of sufficient number of 108 vacancies as Chargeman II they could not be promoted to th at post soon after the completion of 2 years ' service.
