Perhaps, for the first time, this Court in Randhir Singh vs Union of India, ; has innovated that it is a constitu tional goal capable of being achieved through constitutional remedies.
It requires the consideration of various dimensions of the job.
The petition ers have been treated as construction workers and they are being paid the minimum wages admissible to such workmen.
M.C. Dhingra for the Petitioners.
The case of the Corporation is that the unit where the petition ers are working is a factory registered under the Factories Act.
The principal claim of the petitioners therefore fails and is rejected.
They also seek regularisation of their services with the benefits of pen sion, gratuity etc.
(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
As to the claim for regularisation of services of the peti tioners, 669 we express no opinion, since the factual data is disputed and is insufficient.
exhibit P. 2 was issued by the Deputy Commissioner in the exercise of his powers under the H.P. Financial Rules.
If the classification has reasonable nexus with the objective sought to be achieved, efficiency in the administration, the State would be justified in prescribing different pay scales.
It is thus a service oriented organisation helping the village artisans and craftsmen to produce and market their products on remunerative prices.
(Civil) No. 548 of 1987.
In the circumstances of the case, we make no order as to costs.
By the general description of their job, one cannot come to the conclusion that every carpenter or craftsmen is equal to the other in the performance of his work.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, they are seeking enforcement of their fundamental right to have "equal pay for equal work".
It was also held 667 that it is open to the State to classify employees on the basis of qualifications, duties and responsibilities of the posts concerned.
His case was based on the allegations that he was discharging same duties and performing similar functions as "Senior Speech Therapist", "Senior Physiotherapist", "Senior Occupa tional Therapist", "Audiologist" and "Speech Pathologist".
The Court while rejecting the claim expressed the view (at 100): "But equal pay must depend upon the nature of the work done, it cannot be judged by the mere volume of work, there may be qualitative difference as regards reliability and responsibility.
He claimed equal salary for equal work at that of other drivers.
The next contention that the petitioners should be paid at least the minimum wages prescribed by the Deputy Commis sioner under Exhibit P. 2 dated March 20, 1986 cannot also be accepted.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K. JAGANNATHA SHETTY, J.
During the period of training, the trainees are paid a stipend by the Corporation.
The princi ple was incorporated only under Article 39(d) of the Consti tution as a Directive Principle of State Policy.
Nonetheless, for the purpose of preserv ing and promoting traditional arts and crafts, the Corpora tion has been kept alive.
We have carefully perused the material on record and gave our anxious consideration to the question urged.
In the light of the aforesaid principles, we may now consider whether the equality claims of the petitioners could be allowed.
Kapil Sibal, K.G. Bhagat, A.K. Ganguli, Ms. Kamini Jaiswal, 664 Ms. Aruna Mathur, A. Mariarputham, Harminder Lal and Naresh K. Sharma for the Respondents.
