The scheme of the old section 4 is indisputedly to determine the assessable value of the goods on the basis of the price charged by the assessee, less certain abatements.
In construing section 4(4)(d)(i), all that has to be seen is whether the goods are delivered in packed condition.
It was held by Pathak, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) that such cost of corrugated fibreboard containers could not be in cluded in the determination of "value" in section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Act for the purposes of excise duty.
Chief Justice Bhag wati, on the other hand, held that corrugated fibreboard containers in which the cigarettes were contained fell within the definition of 'packing ' in the Explanation to section 4(4)(d)(i) and if these formed part of the packing in which the goods were packed when delivered at the time of removal, then under section 4(4)(d)(i) read with the Expla nation, the cost of such corrugated fibreboard containers would be liable to be included in the value of cigarettes.
In the case of Union of India vs Godfrey Phillips Ltd., , this position was clarified by the majority judgment.
In the case of styrene monomer, the finding is that the supply is in tankers to the extent of 90% and only 10% of the sales were made in drums.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., (supra) dealing with the aspect of secondary packing, where this Court reiterated that the degree of secondary packing which is necessary for putting the excisable article in which it is sold in the wholesale market at the factory was the degree of packing where the cost would be included in the value of the goods for the purpose of excise duty.
Shri Harish Salve, arguing for the appellants, con tended that the cost of packing referred to in section 4(4)(d)(i) is such cost incurred by a manufacturer and not the cost of packing borne by the buyer.
A.N. Sen, J., who agreed with Pathak, J., observed that on a proper construction of section 4(4)(d)(i), it was clear that any secondary packing done for the purpose of facilitating transport and smooth transit of the goods to be delivered to the buyer in the wholesale trade could not be included in the value for the purpose of assessment of excise duty.
In 10% of the sales, the "vehicle" of removal was drums.
There was no evidence that there was any necessity of pack ing or putting these in drums prior to their sale.
There was no evidence that there was any necessity of packing or putting them in drums prior to their sale.
3 SCR 123.
Chief Justice Bhagwati dissented.
It is not all packing which is liable to be included under clause 4(4)(d)(i) in the assess able value of the goods.
The learned Attorney General, on the other hand, contended that the terms of section 4(4)(d)(i) are very clear and specific.
There was no question of making any additions to the price charged by the assessee.
Collector of Central Excise, Panaji & Ors., as also the decision of the Karnataka High Court in Alembic Glass Industries Ltd. vs Union of India & Ors., Learned Attorney General urged before us that the question whether for determining the assessable value of the excisable goods sold by the assessee in drums or containers provided by its customers (the asses see itself provided such drums/containers on payment of price in Civil Appeals Nos.
Analysing the scope of section 4 of the Act, it was held by this Court that supply of gas cylinders might be ancillary activity to the supply of gases but this was not ancillary or incidental to the manufacture of gases.
This Court reiterated that section 4 of the Act provides the measure by reference to which the charge is to be levied.
To con strue new section 4 as now suggested would amount to depart ing from this concept and replacing it with the concept of a notional value comprising of the wholesale cash price plus certain notional charges.
In the aforesaid view of the matter, the appeals are allowed and the orders of the Tribunal are set aside.
Furthermore, no cost was, in fact, incurred by the assessee.
The manufac ture of the goods was complete before these were placed in drums.
993 It also manufactures and sells another liquid known as styrene monomer.
Clause (ii) deals with duties of excise, sales tax and other taxes, if any, payable on such goods.
Learned Attorney General also drew attention to the decision of this Court in A.K. Roy vs Voltas Ltd., and also to Atic Industries Ltd. vs H.H. Dave, Assistant Collector of Central Excise, ; at 568 to emphasise the point that percentages of sales do not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
Reference was made both by the learned Attorney General and Shri Salve to the observations of this Court in Union of India vs Godfrey Phillips India Ltd., [1985] Supp.
There was no dispute that the cost of primary packing into packets of 10 and 20 and the cost of secondary packing in cartons/ outers must be included in determining the value of the cigarettes for the purpose of assessment of excise duty, since such packing would fall under section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Act.
In the premises, the value of the drums with regard to the fusel oil/styrene monomer irrespective of whether these were supplied by the assessee or not, are not includible in the assessable value of the Styrene Monomer.
In the premises, the value of the drums irrespective of whether these where supplied by the assessee or not, is not inclu dible in the assessable value of the goods.
It has been so held by this Court in Bombay Tyre International 's case (supra).
365 367 of the Report.
Where the manufacturer supplies his own container or drum but does not charge the customer therefore, then the price of the goods will also include the cost of the con tainer.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., ; 981 Shri Salve has, however, contended that so far as this Court is concerned, this question is concluded by the deci sion of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd., Learned Attorney General, however, contended that this decision did not deal with the present controversy.
It was contended by Shri Salve, appearing on behalf of the appellant, that on a correct analysis of section 4(4)(d), the duty being on the activity of manufacture whatever is necessary to bring the goods into existence alone can be taken into account for duty purposes.
Similarly, Karnataka High Court in Alembic Glass Industries vs Union of India & Ors., (supra) held that the term "value" defined in section 4(4)(d)(i) provides for exclusion of cost of packing materi al which was of durable nature and was returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
The object and purpose of the levy, the meaning of the expression 'assessable value ' as interpreted in section before its amendment cou pled with the now well established position that the amend ment intended to make no change in this position, the use of the word "cost" rather than "value", the nature of the other payments referred to in sub clause (ii) all these show beyond doubt that, while generally the normal price for which the goods are sold at the factory gate is to be taken as the assessable value, an addition thereto has to be made where, in addition to the price, the manufacturer levies a charge for the packing which is intrinsically and inevitably incidental to placing the manufactured goods on the market.
450 452 of 1985A dated 4th July, 1985, 473/184A and 474/84A both dated 21st June, 1984 passed by the Customs, Excise & Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as 'the Tribunal ').
ED(SB)(T) A. Nos. 513 514, & 544 of 1985(A) & ED(SB) 329 & 324/84 A in Order Nos.
Section 3 of the Act provides that there shall be levied and collected in such manner as maybe pre scribed duties of excise on all excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India. "Excisable goods", under section 2(d) of the Act, means goods specified in the Schedule to the as being subject to duty of excise and includes salt.
It was submitted that while deter mining the scope and nature of levy, as contemplated under section 3 of the Act, of central excise and the measure of such levy as provided in section 4 of the Act the principles laid .down in Union of India vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., (supra), should be followed and reliance was placed on the several decisions of this Court which we will refer to later.
The relevant provi sion of section 4 of the Act deals with the manner as to how the value is to be computed and section 4(4)(d) stipulates as follows: ""value" in relation to any excisable goods, (i) where the goods are delivered at the time of removal in a packed condition, includes the cost of such packing except the cost of the packing which is of a durable nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
450 452/85 A, 473 & 474/84 A. Harish Salve, Ravinder Narain, P.K. Ram and D.N. Mishra for the Appellant.
In the aforesaid view of the matter, I am of the opinion that these appeals have to be allowed and the orders of the Tribunal set aside.
Collector.
In the premises, on 992 the facts of this case, it is clear that the goods were not sold in drums generally in the course of the wholesale trade.
The Asstt.
Manufacture under the excise law, is the process or activity which brings into being articles which are known in the market as goods and to be goods these must be different, identifiable and distinct articles known to the market as such.
The fusel oil and monomer are supplied generally in tankers brought by the customers Sometimes it is supplied in drums provided by the customers who are not charged anything for those drums.
In this view of the matter, I consider it unnecessary to discuss wider questions as to the circumstances in which the cost of packing (primary or secondary) can at all enter into the determination of the 995 assessable value under section 4(4)(d)(i) canvassed by the counsel for the assessee or as to the correctness or other wise of the decision of this Court in Union of India vs Godfrey Phillips, by the learned Attorney General.
The use of the expression "cost" could not obviously be by way of reference to packing for which the cost is incurred by the buyer.
This Court rejected the contention on behalf of the assessee in that case, that section 4 also levied excise on the basis of a conceptual value which must exclude post manufacturing expenses and post manufacturing profit by observing that the contention proceeded on the assumption that a conceptual value governed the assessment of the levy.
4339 41/86 & 4176 77 of 1984.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI, J.
