His contention was that section 15 of the Act which authorised the State Government to make rules in respect of minor minerals does not specifically authorise the State Government to make such discrimination.
In Civil Writ Petition No. 618 of 1987 filed by Jai Sholanath Quarry Works and another, Mr. Keswani, learned counsel for the petitioners contended that the impugned rule 21 which was substituted in the place of the former rule 21 was invalid as it was discriminatory in character.
Under section 3A of the Act the word 'minerals ' is defined as including all minerals except mineral oils.
" Rule 33 C provides that the lease shall be granted for one year ending 31st December on a payment of a fee of Rs.50 for an area upto 1,000 square meters and Rs. 100 for an area above 1,000 square meters and upto 2,000 square meters.
The fact that section 15 of the Act does no authorise the State Government to show such concession while promulgating the Rules which are in the nature of subordi nate legislation is also of no consequence.
(2) Until rules are made under sub section (1), my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of (quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions) in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
The Act has made provision with regard to the issue of prospecting licences and mining leases in respect of various kinds of minerals other than minor minerals and the procedure to be followed in that connection in the matter of issue of prospecting licences and mining leases.
Clause (e) of the said section defines 'minor minerals ' as building stones, gravel, ordinary clay, ordinary sand other than sand used for prescribed purposes and any other mineral which the Central Government may.
(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India) R.F. Nariman, P.H. Parekh, N.N. Keshwani, Mrs. H. Wahi and R.N. Keshwani for the Petitioners.
Many a time absence of such classi fication may itself result in the invalidation of the law or rule.
Under clause 1 of the proviso to the impugned rule 21, a holder of a Parwana granted under the Rules has to pay royalty at the rate of 50 per cent of the royalty payable by the lessees and no royalty is payable by village potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year and by the village potters whose annual production was not exceeding two lakh bricks and who supply at least one lakh bricks to the Rural Housing Board or Panchayats.
Section 9 of the act empowers the Central Government to levy royalty in respect of the minerals which are won by the mining lease holders under the Act at the rates prescribed in the Second Schedule to the Act.
Under rule 18 of the Rules the period of lease in the case of the minor minerals can be for a much longer period, it can be upto 10 years in respect of minor minerals except in the case of ordinary sand, Kankar, Mur ram, Gravel and in the case of Kankar, Murram and gravel a lease can be granted upto three years, and the area or land covered by a mining lease is governed by rule 15 which says that no quarry lease shall be granted for an area exceeding 10 hectares in case of specified minor mineral and 20 hec tares in the case of other minerals.
