The argument that clause (d) of section 5(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act is not attracted on the proved facts is also not impressive.
The order made was not disclosed to PW 1 and till 22.10.1975, the file itself was kept by the appellant in his personal custody.
The case of Dipawali gift or return of a loan given to PW 1 has not been even suggested.
The learned counsel appearing for the appellant, however, maintained that the appellant had a consistent case even from the earliest opportunity that the currency notes found in his possession was the money returned by PW 1, the cir cumstances of the case would probabalise this case of the appellant and the presumption, if any, arising under section 4 is rebutted and the conviction cannot therefore be sus tained.
The appellant has reiterated the contentions before us.
V. Krishnamurthy for the Respondent.
: Criminal Appeal No. 8 18 of 1979.
A. No. 4 of 1977.
These contentions did not find favour with the High Court.
We find no merit in the appeal.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 4(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
PW 3, the Principal has averred in unequivocal terms that Ex.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by FATHIMA BEEVI, J.
It was also urged that the appellant being new in the office could exert little influence on the Principal and the whole story is, therefore improbable.
He had thereafter received the amount of Rs. 100 from PW 1.
was guilty.
At the trial, the prosecution witnesses supported the case.
" On a careful consideration of the facts and circum stances, we are not satisfied that the appellant had even by preponderance of probability succeeded in rebutting the presumption.
The High Court thought that though the conviction under section 161 I.P.C. and section 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act is to be maintained, no separate sentence need be award ed under section 161 I.P.C.
Of course, it is open to that person to show that though that money was not due to him as legal remuneration it was legally due to him in some other manner or that he had received it under a transaction or an arrangement which was lawful.
The appellant had taken food in the canteen for two days and being dissatisfied discontinued the practice before the notice was issued.
PW 3, the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1, Venkataswamy, the canteen contractor, as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
As instructed, PW 1 was ready with ten rupees currency notes.
He took charge of the office on 6.10.1975 and had been residing in a house opposite the training school.
P 2 memo had been issued on the basis of the complaint received from the appellant that on getting the explanation from PW 1 he on 18.10.1975 itself passed orders and closed the file.
This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 27.10.1979 of the High Court of Madras con firming the conviction of the appellant under section 161, I .P.C. and under section 336 5(2) read with section 5(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
