The order was confirmed by the first appel late court and on fur*her appeal by the High Court.
The application was rejected holding that the provisions of the Act did not apply to open land let for construction.
Under Rule 12(2) he is required to decide applications by recording a brief note of the evidence of parties and 561 witnesses and decide matters after giving the parties an opportunity to state their case: more or less, in the manner in which a Court of Small Causes decides cases before it.
The necessary condition for exercise of jurisdiction by the Rent Controller is the existence of relationship of landlord and tenant.
This was a property comprising of an area of 4 grounds and 151 square feet with certain buildings thereon.
This view was confirmed by the High Court.
Section 97(3) of the Amendment Act declares that the new provi sion applies to pending suits, proceeding, appeals and applica tions.
The application under section 4 could not, therefore, have been summarily rejected even assuming that the question of title could be said to have been substantially in issue and decided in the previous proceedings.
When a petition under section 4 is filed, the Rent Controller, on the language of section 4 has to decide: (1) whether the applicant is a tenant in, or landlord of, the building and (2) what the fair rent of the premises should be in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
Denial of title of the landlord is itself one of the grounds on which eviction can be sought [section 10(2)(vii) ].
The Court observed: "The main relief sought for by.the tenants was for deposit ing the rents on the ground that the landlord refused to receive the same.
This contention was upheld by the appellate court and the High Court.
Any determination by him of this question, therefore, is (subject to the result of an appeal to the tribunal) binding on the parties only for the purpose of the proceedings under the Act, but no further.
T.S. Krishnamurthy lyer, M.J. Paul and Kailash Vasudev for the Appellant.
The first lease (Ext.
(3) Dhulabhai vs State, ; was concerned with the interpretation of the provision in the Madhya Bharat Sales Tax Act barring the jurisdiction of civil courts in matters entrusted to the jurisdiction of the special tribunals created under the Act.
Section 4 of the Rent Control Act, as already pointed out, provides only a machin ery for fixation of fair rent in respect of certain prem ises.
Such provision, however, does not exclude those cases where the provisions of the particular Act have not been complied with or the statutory tribunal has not acted in conformity 565 with the fundamental principles of judicial procedure.
counsel contended that section 10 makes it clear beyond doubt that the Rent Controller is precluded from deciding any issue regarding title to the property and that, if any such question arises, he should leave it to be decided by ordi nary civil courts in appropriate proceedings.
It has long been held that a question of title in a Small Cause suit can be regarded as incidental only to the substantial issue in the suit and cannot operate 8as res judicata in a subsequent suit in which the question of title is directly raised . .
Similarly by an erroneous decision if the Court assumes jurisdiction which it does not possess under the statute, the decision will not operate as res judicata between the same parties, whether the cause of action in the subsequent litigation is the same or otherwise." (5) Gangabai vs Chhabubai, ; , related to the jurisdiction of the Court of Small Causes.
But, he submitted, even the decision of a Tribunal or a Court of limited jurisdiction cannot be called in question so long as it acts within the scope of the jurisdiction conferred on it by the relevant statutes.
Sri Krish namurthy Iyer is, therefore, certainly right in contending that the Act requires the Rent Controller to consider this issue, among others, while disposing the applications before him.
It is the quantum of fair rent that arises for deter mination by the Rent Controller.
These documents were executed on January 7, 1953, but the respondent contin ued in the possession of the house property throughout.
The Division Bench observed: " . .
In the other petition he ordered eviction on the ground that the denial was not bona fide.
XXX XXX XXX (4) in Mathura Prasad Bajoo Jaiswal & Ors.
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 10(2)(vii) of the Act read with the proviso to section 10(1) and the Court 's observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
The correctness of that finding may be questioned in any subsequent legal proceeding in the ordinary courts of the land where the question might arise for decision.
The terms of section 11 C.P.C., including Explanation VIII, are not comprehensive enough to cover the case.
Sri Krishnamoorthy Iyer also contended that even if it may be an arguable question as to whether the decision in the earlier petitions constitutes res judicata or not and it may plausibly be argued that it does not constitute res judicata, the question for our consideration really is whether the order passed in the 557 earlier eviction petition can be treated as a nullity being passed by a court totally without jurisdiction.
vs Smt.
After discussing several decisions in regard to the exclusion of a civil court 's jurisdiction as well as the provisions of the Act, the Court pointed out that the terms of section 64 C a1one will not be decisive on the point of ouster of the civil court 's jurisdiction.
We think that this contention is well founded.
The landlady denied any relationship of tenant and landlord between the applicant and herself.
vs Dossibai N.B. Jeejeebhoy, ; , the appellant had ob tained lease of an open land for construction of buildings.
The defini tion of "landlord" under the Act is very wide and encompass es not only an owner but also persons "receiving or entitled to receive the rent of the building which has been let out or would be entitled to receive the rent of the building if it were let out to a tenant" in one of several capacities.
In a subsequent suit filed by the tenants in the civil court as tenants of the suit building, the landlady contended that the earlier decision operated as res judicata, but this contention was negatived.
ivil Appeal No 1514 of 1979.
1947 relating to Door No. 3 (Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint) covered an area of 8700 sq.
One is fixation of fair rent and increase thereof under sections 4, 5 and 6; the second is permission to deposit rents in the court under section 8 (5); the third is to order eviction under section 10; the fourth is to direct recovery of possession by the landlord for repairs under section 12; and the fifth is to order restoration of amenities when they are unjustly withheld, under section 14 of the Act.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20.11.1968.
vs Musunuru Venkayya and Ors.
(2) No such order shall be liable to be questioned in any court of law.
The Court observed: 566 "A question relating to the jurisdiction of a Court cannot be deemed to have been finally determined by an erroneous decision of the Court.
Negativing the plea of the plaintiffs, the Court pointed out: (8) xxx xxx xxx If a particular matter is one which does not fall within the exclusive jurisdiction of the revenue court, then a decision of a revenue court on such a matter, which might be incidentally given by the revenue court, cannot be bind ing on the parties in a civil court.
In a suit by a landlord against his tenant for eviction, the determination of the tenancy is merely one of the constituents of the cause of action that the landlord has to prove against his tenant in order to succeed in the suit.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
The second argument, explaining why the respondents did not challenge the 1967 order in further appeal or revision, is also of no avail in consider ing the issue raised by the counsel for the appellant.
For instance, the "owner" may claim title under an adoption or a will or a trust deed or a gift deed and there may be contentious claims among several persons which it will not be possible for the Rent Controller to decide.
P 1) was dated 22.9.
In order to decide whether the denial of the landlord 's title by the tenant is bona fide, the Rent Controller may have to go into the tenant 's contentions on the issue but he is not to decide the question finally.
Therefore, it was urged that the civil court 's jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the nature or character of the suit lands must be held to have been ex cluded or ousted.
O.S.A. 62 of 1973 was, therefore, allowed to that extent.
In our opinion, on a proper construction of the Rent Control Act, the question on which the jurisdiction of the civil court is excluded is only the determination as to the fair rent of the premises.
