It was heard by five learned judges.
Mr Iyengar, for the appellant, has strongly urged before us that, since these facts are established, the court must presume the valid execution of the will and in support of his contention he has invited our attention to the relevant statements on the point in the text books dealing with the subject.
Mr. Iyengar, for the appellant, strenuously contended that, in deciding whether the suspicions attending the execution of the will have been removed or not, it would be necessary to remember that the whole of the relevant evidence is all one way and there is no evidence in rebuttal led by respondent 1.
(1) 459 It is in the light of these decisions that the appellant wants us to consider the evidence which he has adduced in the present case.
Mr. Hinkson was by profession a barrister and solicitor and had drawn the will with no witness present until after the body of the document was complete.
In Sarat Kumari Bibi vs Sakhi Chand (2), the Privy Council made it clear that " the principle which requires the propounder to remove suspicions from the mind of the Court is not confined only to cases where the propounder takes part in the execution of the will and receives benefit under it.
In Perera vs Perera (2) it was held that when the testator is of sound mind when he gives instructions for a will but at the time of signature accepts the instrument drawn in pursuance thereof without being able (1) (2) 456 to follow its provisions, he must be deemed to be of sound mind when it is executed.
On appeal, by a majority ' decision the order of the trial court was reversed.
The learned judge of the Surrogate Court, after a lengthy trial affirmed the will and decreed probate in solemn form.
The sixth was whether the testator knew and approved of the residuary clause; and by this last clause the propounders of the will were made the residuary legatees and were appointed executors.
The scribe (P.W. 3) is a near relation of Kalbagal and even he does not at all support the appellant 's case about previous instruction because, according to him, the testatrix said that she would agree to whatever the appellant would get written.
The case of Shama Charn Kundu vs Khettromoni Dasi (1), on the other hand, was the case of a will the execution of which was held to be not surrounded by any suspicious circumstances.
(2) , 157, 159.
" There is however no unyielding rule of law (especially where the ingredient of fraud enters into the case) that, when it has been (1) [1875) L.R. 7 H. L 448.
In this connection, he referred us to certain documents exhibited under exhibit I G ' and attempted to show that the lands given to his sisters ' daughters were of the value of Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,000 each.
