Though section 6, as amended, purports to make dealers liable to pay tax on their sales as well as purchases, the actual charge of tax, under section 15, is only imposed on the sales and purchases that form part of his taxable turnover.
The argument on behalf of the Revenue, which has found favour with the High Court is that section 9(1) exempts only sales made in the course of export within the meaning of section 5(1) of the C.S.T. Act but not those under section 5(3) of the said Act.
(f) Amendment Act 8 of 1986 substituted, in the proviso to section 9( 1 ), the words "scientific goods, guar gum, uten sils and handicrafts" in place of "scientific goods and guar gum" w.e.f. 26.2.86.
Alterna tively, he submits, section 9(1)(b) has been declared unconstitu tional by this Court in the Goodyear case ; and, therefore,, the assessees can seek no implied exemption from its language.
section 9(1) is a charging section.
355 (c) Act 11 of 1984 changed the marginal heading of the section as "Rights and liabilities of registered dealers".
As a result of section 5(3), such penultimate sales become export sales falling beyond the purview and competence of State legislatures.
We think Shri Agarwal is right in saying that any sale effected by the assessees in the circumstances, which have been set out by us earlier, must fall in one of three cate gories.
Shri Gupta, on behalf of the State, contended that the goods might have been directly moved by the assessee to a port for shipment abroad in pursuance of an export contract entered into by the dealer who purchased from the assessee.
This contention was accepted by this Court.
(2) If a reference is made to section 24, one finds that section 24(1)(iii) refers again to sub section (1) of section 5 of the only.
" (b) Act 3 of 1983 renumbered the above as section 24(1) and added, with effect from 31.3.83, a proviso each, to clauses (a) and (b).
" (d) An amendment of 1986 expanded the proviso to section 24(I)(b) by adding "utensils and metal handicrafts" to "scientific goods and guar gum", as in section 9(1) proviso.
The contention of Shri Gupta on this aspect proceeds thus: section 6, which is the charging section, both originally and after its retrospective amendment in 1990, imposes a tax on all sales and purchases effected by a dealer.
What was declared unconstitutional by this Court was, therefore, only the levy of a tax where raw materials are purchased and used inside the State for the manufacture of finished goods which are then simply and without any sale despatched rather, consigned outside the State.
As pointed out by Sri Agarwal, even in Mohd. Sirajuddin 's case (supra), although the exemption claimed for the sales as export sales was denied, the conclusion of the High Court that the sales to S.T.C. were inter State sales chargeable under section 5(1) of the C.S.T. Act was upheld.
The language of section 9(1)(a)(ii) later 9(1)(b) using the words "within the meaning of sub section (1) of section 5 of the " have to be given full meaning; in other words, the exemption under section 9(1) has to be restricted only to export sales falling within the scope of section 5(1).
Section 2(e) (a) Originally section 2(e) defined 'export ' to mean "the taking out of goods from the State to any place outside it otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce.
(p) of section 2.
Validation provision Act 1 of 1990 effected no amendments to section 24 or 27.
But section 14 of 356 this Act (which is a validation section on the same lines as those contained in the earlier amendment Acts) has been referred to in the course of the arguments before us and can be usefully extracted.
" (b) Act 44 of 1976 made two amendments to this sub section.
Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B: Provided further that . .
" (b) Act 13 of 1989 amended the Explanation by inserting, in it, after the words "section 9", the words "or section 24".
This contention is an interesting one but it overlooks the effect of section 2(p) read with section 15 of the Act.
(b) section 6 was amended by Act I of 1990 to read as follows with retrospective effect from 27.5.
The provisoes to section 27(a)(iv), in particular, make a clear contrast between sales falling under sub section (3) and those failing under sub section (1) of section 5 of the C.S.T. Act.
It added a clause (c) to sub section (1) relating to use of the goods in the execution of works contract in the State, with which we are not concerned.
(e) Act 1 of 1988, affecting from 31.12.1987, omitted the words "sub section (1) of" in section 24(I)(b)(ii).
Shri Gupta contends that, if section 9(1) is left out of account for this reason, the pur chases of raw materials by the assessee would be liable to tax under section 6 of the Act.
In view of the circumstances outlined above, we are of the opinion that the High Court was right in concluding that the assessee 362 was not entitled to the exemption under section 9because the sales made by him were not sates in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of section 5(1) of the .
Thus sub section read as follows: 357 "5.
This definition includes, within the definition of 'turnover ' the purchase value of goods liable to tax under section 9 but, the goods presently in question are not laible to tax under section 9, not only as contended for the assessees and held by us above but also on the hypothesis as to the invalidity of section 9(1)(b) on which the present argument on behalf of the Revenue pro ceeds.
" This sub section came up for the consideration of this Court in Mohammed Sirajuddin vs State, [1975] Supp. 1 S.C.R. 169.
vil Appeal No. 6202 (NT) of 1983.
" (b) Act 44 of 1976, added, at the end of the above definition, the following words w.e.f.
In the original section, there was an Explanation which restricted the meaning of purchases for the purposes of the section.
Clause 9(1)(b) referred to cases where raw materials were purchased and exported and the word 'export ' was defined in section 2(c) as meaning "the taking out of the goods from the 361 State to any place outside it otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce." Act 44 of 1976 amended the definition of 'export ' in section 2(c) by adding the wide words "or in the course of export out of the territory 01 ' India" w.e.f. 1.4.
