In para 215 of the said Policy, it is providedthat the Export House/Trading House would be eligible to Additional licences on the basis of the admissible exports made in the preceding licensing year and that the value of these licences will be calculated at 10% of the NFE earnings on the total eligible exports made in the preceding licensing year and that this percentage shall be 12% in cases where an Export/Trading House is able to achieve a minimum growth of 10% in term of NFE realisation in the previous year, over and above the year preceding the same.
The petitioner were no granted Additional licences on the basis of net foreign exchange earnings and they have secured the Additional licences on the basis of the f.o.b. value of the exports, without taking into account the value of the goods imported by them for achieving the exports.
This was a measure of restitution, but the Court while doing so, ensured that nothing illegal was done." (P.1000) After referring to the decision in Raj Prakash Chemicals Ltd. (supra) this Court has stressed: "The items had to pass to two tests, firstly, they should have been importable under the import policy 1978 79 and secondly they should also have been importable under the import policy 1985 88 in terms of the Order dated 18th April, 1985, and if one may add, in such terms 'in accordance with the import rules ' whether canalised or not canalised." (P. 1001) This Court has gone on to emphasise: "It must be emphasised that in the Order dated 18th April, 1985, this Court did not do away with canalisation.
(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
The Customs, Excise & Gold (Control) Appellate Tri 249 bunal (hereinafter referred to as 'the Appellate Tribunal ') on appeal, while upholding the order of imposition of redemption fine, set aside the order of Collector imposing penalty.
That 247 was not the issue before this Court.
petitions No. 20021 22 of 1986 in civil appeal No. 2924/1984; and the decision dated 15.4.1987 in the writ petition No. 1483 of 1987 filed by M/s. D. Naveen Chandra & Company.
In view of the fact that the licence issued in favour of M/s. Suraj Diamonds Industries was issued under a mistake and the said mistake has been rectified, it cannot be said that the petitioners have been subjected to hostile discrimination vis a vis other Export House similarly situate.
For determining the eligibility of the products manufactured by small scale and cottage sector industries are to be reckoned at twice the actual NFE earnings.
Shri H.N. Salve, has, however, urged that in view of the decision of this Court in D. Navinchandra & Co. case (supra) the Export Houses who were granted Additional licences under the Import & Export Policy 1978 79 have to be treated at par with Export Houses who have been granted Additional licences under the Import & Export Policy for the subsequent years and since there has been relaxation in the matter of policy of canalisation of imports under sub para (4) of 246 para 215 in respect of Additional licences granted to Export Houses under the Import & Export Policy 1988 91, the petitioners are also entitled to a similar relaxation.
241 (9) Additional licences issued to Export Houses/Trading Houses after 1.4.1988 on exports made during 1986 87 or earlier periods, will be `non transferable '.
As a result of the aforesaid discussion it must be held that the petitioners have failed to make out a case for interference by this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution.
The petitioners submitted application for registration as Export Houses and for grant of Export House Certificate which would have entitled them to the grant of such Additional licence.
Ltd. civil appeal No. 3418/1986; the decision dated 12.9.1986 in the case of M/s Star Diamonds Company of India in civil misc.
In sub para(4) 215 it has been provided as under: "(4) Additional licences issued to Export Houses will also be valid for the import of the following items upto 10% (upto 15% in the case of Trading Houses) of the value of the licence for: (i) Import of technical designs, drawings and other technical documentation for a value not exceeding Rs. 10 lakhs in the case of Export Houses, and Rs. 25 lakhs in the case of Trading Houses; 239 (ii) import of items appearing in Appendices 3 Part A,3 Part B and 5 Part A subject to the following conditions: (a) that the c.i.f. value of a `single item ' shall not exceed 10% of the flexibility in value terms of Rs.10 lakhs, whichever is less: (b) where the value for import of a `single item ' on the basis of 10% as at (a) above, works out to less than Rupees one lakh, import would be permitted upto a value of Rs. 1 lakh, provided it is within the overall flexibility allowed on the licence: and (iii) import of non OGL capital goods (other than those appearing in Appendices 1 Part A and 8) without indigenous clearance, subject to the same conditions as stipulated at (ii) above, within the overall flexibility allowed to Export/Trading Houses".
(3) The Additional licences issued prior to 1.4.1988 240 shall cease to be valid for import of items of raw materials, components and spares which appeared in Parts I and II of List 8, Appendix 6 of Import Export Policy, 1985 88, but are not now covered by Part I of List 8, Appendix 6 of this Policy.
In view of the special facts and circumstances of the case and specially having regard to the findings of the Appellate Tribunal that the appellants imported canalised items bona fide, this Court set aside the orders of the Collector and the Appellate Tribunal with regard to confiscation of goods and imposition of redemption fine without dealing with the submissions of learned counsel for the parties with regard to the interpretation and the effect of the earlier judgments of this Court in Raj Prakash Chemicals case (supra), Indo Afghan case (supra), Godrej Soap case (supra) and D. Navinchandra & Co. case (supra).
In para 215 of the said Policy certain additional facilities have been given in the matter of imports by Export Houses under Additional licences issued to them.
In Para 165 of the said Policy eligibility for grant of Export House Certificates was to be determined on the basis of the export actually made in the three year base period 1975 76, 1976 77 and 1977 78 and in para 166 it was laid down that annual average f.o.b. value of exports in the prescribed base period of select products should not be less than Rs. One crore or those of non select products Rs. Five crores, but in the case of a small scale unit or a consortium of small scale units, the said minimum limit was reduced to Rs. 25 lakhs for select products and Rs. 2 crores for non select products.
In fact case Export Houses, like the petitioners, wanted to import to Dry Fruits under the Additional licences issued to them.
(5) Additional licences issued to Export Houses/Trading Houses prior to 1.4.1988 shall cease to be valid for import of items of spares appearing in Appendices 2,3, 5 Part A, 8 and 10 of this Policy.
Part A of Appendix 5 contains the list of items import of which is canalised through public sector agencies.
