vs Janaki Dei & Ors., AIR (1980) Ori.
Respondent No. 2 and his counsel Mr. Ram Kumar have accepted the fact that the parties have signed the compromise petition which contain terms which they had accepted and all parties have accepted the document of compromise to be genuine.
543 4.
Under orders of this Court security has been furnished for mesne profits.
Petition No. 15001 of 1989.
AND I.A. No. 1 of 1989 in S.L.P. No. 12288 of 1984.
In view of the aforesaid direction, the security furnished in the Trial Court shall stand discharged and the alienees will have no liability to account for mesne profits.
The factum of compromise is not in dispute.
In February, 1985, during the pendency of the special leave petition the adoptive mother died.
ivil Misc.
108 where the power of the Court under Order 23, rule 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure in the face of an objection of one of the parties to the compromise was considered.
With a view to settling all equities between the parties and with the consent of Seshiah who is present in Court, and counsel for the sons and after hearing the Advocate for the alienees, we make the following directions: 1.
Counsel for the alienees has taken the stand that the said alienations are valid and the transferees have become owners of the property and has even maintained that there have been improvements of the property by the alienees.
Their possession is without authority of law.
The following Order of the Court was delivered: 540 The special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution is directed against the affirming judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in a suit for title and injunction.
Rs 77,124 being the amount paid by the alienees before the Sub Registrar in respect of the sale deeds shall be deposited within the same period in the Trial Court and the alienees of the different sale deeds would be entitled to withdraw the amounts on the basis of the record made by the Sub Registrar on each of the sale deeds.
Relying upon several authorities of different High Courts and one of the Privy Council referred to in the decision, the High 542 Court held that once the Court was satisfied that there was a compromise it was for the Court to record the same and no option lay before the Court to act otherwise.
There would be no order for costs.
In view of the fact that a petition of compromise in respect of the entire subject matter of litigation has been filed in this Court it is unnecessary to refer to the facts leading to the litigation.
