In the case of Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court, there is no such requirement under any provi sion of furnishing particulars of their assets so as to provide a record thereof with reference to which such an opinion can be formed and there is no vertical superior with legal authority enabling obtaining of information from the concerned Judge.
Sub section (1) of Section 5 of the Act defines 'criminal misconduct ' in its several clauses and Sub section (2) thereof prescribes punishment for the of fence of criminal misconduct.
Prescribing the substantive offence by insertion of clause (e.) as a part of the same schem 297 of amendment also suggests the manner in which this require ment of the offence of inability to satisfactorily account can be examined by the competent authority while granting sanction to prosecute the public servant.
The Administrative Tribu nals Act as enacted was found to suffer from certain infirm ities which would render it invalid and thereby failing to achieve the object of its enactment unless the deficiencies therein were supplied.
(See Mohd. lqbal Ahmad vs State of A.P., ; ; Legislature advisedly conferred power on the authority competent to remove the public servant from the office to grant sanction for the obvious reason that that authority alone would be able, when facts and evidence are placed before him, to judge whether a serious offence is committed or the prosecution is either frivolous or specula tive.
In the case of any late starter or an exception, the power of removal in accordance with Article 124(4) by adopt ing the procedure prescribed under Article 124(5) was ex pected to be sufficient to eradicate the exceptional menace while preserving independence of the judiciary.
Mr. Justice Shetty has held that since ultimately it is the order of the President which is necessary for the removal of a Judge, he must be treated to be the competent authority.
Application of certain provi sions relating to Supreme Court to High Courts .
Application of certain provi sions relating to Supreme Court to High Courts.
It is the holding of the office which gives an opportunity to use it for corrupt motives.
1969, he was appointed the Chief Justice of the Madras High Court, from which office he retired on 7.4.1976.
In this context, clause (5) of Article 124 is also of considerable significance.
The Section 173(2) provides that on completion of the investigation the police officer investigating into a cognizable offence shall submit a report.
(See clause (5) of Article 324 of the Constitution.
XXX XXX XXX 148.
These obser vations, I believe, would be not only acceptable, but wel come to the Union of India, as during the hearing it was at the suggestion of the learned Solicitor General and the Additional Solicitor General, that the desirability of the aforesaid direction in the judgment was considered by the Bench.
(2) No criminal proceedings whatso ever shall be instituted or continued against the President, or the Government of a State, in any court during his term of office.
vs Union of India & Ors. etc.
The definition of 'public servant ' given in the Act includes 'every Judge '.
The test of applicability of the existing law would be the legal sanc tion and justiciability of the proposed guidelines without which it is unworkable in the case of such persons.
In this sub section, the expressions "bank" and "bankers ' books" shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Bankers ' Books Evidence Act, 189 1 ( 18 of 1891).
The concept of sanction for prosecution by a superior is so inextricably woven into the fabric of the enactment that the pattern is incomplete without it.
A public servant occupies office which renders him a public servant and 287 occupying.
What was earlier a rule of evidence in Sub section (3) of Section 5 of the Act, was made a substantive offence of criminal misconduct by insert ing clause (e) in Sub section (1) of Section 5 by this amendment.
(2) Where for any reason whatsoever any doubt arises whether the previous sanction as required under subsection (1) should be given by the Central or State Government or any other authority, such sanction shall be given by that Government or authority which would have been com 279 petent to remove the public servant from his office at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed.
No doubt, as held in Antulay, no sanction for prosecution under Section 6 is required after the public servant ceases to hold office, but it does not imply that every holder of a public office after ceasing to hold that office is within the purview of the enactment, even though during the tenure in office, only those public servants are 299 within its ambit in whose case sanction under Section 6 must be obtained.
It has been strenuously contended by Mr. Sibal, learned counsel for the appellant, that the Constitution envisages an independent judiciary, and to achieve this goal it is essential that the other limbs of the State including the executive and the lagislature should be denied a posi tion from where the judiciary can be pressurized.
It has been urged by the Solicitor General as well as the Additional Solicitor General that the Judges of the High Court cannot be said to be exempted from prosecution in respect of offences provided in the Prevention of Corruption Act.
264 3.
Provisions of clause (e) of section 5(1) are as follows: 217 "if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
Sub article 2 of Article 124 further provides that every Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts in the States as the President may deem necessary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of sixty five years.
The collec tive wisdom of the constitutional functionaries involved in the process of appointing a superior Judge is expected to ensure that persons of unimpeachable integrity alone are appointed to these high offices and no doubtful persons gain entry.
The grant of previous sanction under Section 6 being a condition precedent for the prosecution of a public servant covered by the Act, it must follow that the holder of an office who may be a public servant according to the wide definition of the expression in the Act but whose category for the grant of sanction for prosecution is not envisaged by Section 6 of the Act, is outside the purview of the Act, not intended to be covered by the Act.
The only mode of removal of a Judge from his office on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity is laid down in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124.
Construction of Section 6(1)(c) of the Act as suggested by the learned Solicitor General by treating the President as ,the competent authori ty to remove a High Court Judge would conflict with the provisions enacted in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 read with Article 218 of the Constitution.
It is for the public servant to prove the source of income or the means by which he acquired the assets.
(3) No process for the arrest or imprisonment of the President, or the Governor of a State, shall issue from any court during his term of office.
(4) No civil proceedings in which relief is claimed against the President, or the Governor of a State, shall be instituted during his term of office in any court in respect of any act done or purporting to be done by him in his personal capacity, whether before or after he entered upon his office as President, or as Governor of such State, until the expiration of two months next after notice in writing has been delivered to the President or the Governor.
The learned Solici tor General and the Additional Solicitor General also urged that adequate safeguards in the form of guidelines be sug gested by this Court to prevent any abuse of executive authority or harassment to independent Judges.
(Articles 124(2) and 2 17(1).) Even for trans fer of a Judge from one High Court to another the Chief Justice should be consulted by the President of India (Article 222).
The structure oil the section does not permit the applicability of the rule of ejusdem generis.
This additional mode is by proving the extent of the pecuniary resources or property in the possession of the accused or any other person on his behalf and thereafter showing that this is disproportionate to his known sources of income.
vs State of Bihar, at 157; that the statutory requirement of the report under Section 173(2) would be complied 262 with if the various details prescribed therein are included in the report.
The question of grant of sanction under Section 6 for the prosecution of a Judge or Chief Justice of a High Court for an offence punishable under Section 5(2) of the Act is, therefore, of considerable importance to decide the main question in this appeal.
(See clause (1) of Article 148 and for removal of the Chief Election Commissioner.
When section 5(1)(e) uses the words "for which the public servant is unable to satisfactorily account", it is implied that the burden is on such public servant to ac count for the sources for the acquisition of disproportionate assets.
The Chief Justice of India in consulta tion with the Chief Justices of the High Courts should arrange for a thorough inquiry into the incidence of corruption, among the judiciary, and evolve, in consultation with the Central and State Governments, proper measures to prevent and eliminate it.
Our Constitution provides for separation of powers of the three wings of the State with judicial review as one of the essential tenets of the basic structure of the Constitution.
No doubt for the judicial community in general it would be a sad day to become suspect needing such a legislation to keep it on the right track.
Before closing this chapter I would again repeat that this issue is not arising in the present case and will have to be considered and finally decided only when it directly arises.
This sub mission, if we may say so, completely overlooks the powers of the Investigating Officer.
The order of the President is sine qua non for removal of a Judge.
This has become neces sary so that an aggrieved or misdirected person may not cast aspersions on the court which may adversely affect the public confidence.
But since the legality of the charge sheet has been impeached, we will deal with that contention 261 also.
1976, the Central Bureau of Investigation at Delhi registered a case against the appellant under the Act and on 28.2.1976, the First Information Report was lodged accusing the appellannt of the offence of criminal misconduct under Section 5(1)(e) punishable under Section 5(2) of the Act.
The infirmity of this argu ment advanced by the learned Solicitor General invoking the aid of certain implied guidelines involving the Chief Jus tice of India in the process of contemplated action under the Act against a Judge of the High Court or the Supreme Court, leaves more questions unanswered that it answers.
, 1982] 2 SCR 365 it was clearly pointed out that a High Court Judge is a high constitutional functionary and while dealing with the question of the machinery having legal sanction to deal with a High Court Judge against whom alle gations of lack of intergrity and corruption were made, it was stated as under: ".
XXX XXX XXX 280 211.
The Committee considers that only the more/ important items of movable property should be reported specifically and that it would be sufficient if Government servants report the total value of other movable property except articles of daily use like clothes, utensils, crockery, books, etc.
The slightest hint of irregu larity or impropriety in the Court is a cause for great anxiety and alarm.
or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate, or from any person whom he knows to be inter ested in or related to the person so con cerned, or (c) if he dishonestly or fraudulently misap propriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do, or (d) if he, by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advan tage, or (e) if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
The President exercises his powers by and with the advice of his Council of Ministers.
XXX XXX XXX 124.
XXX XXX XXX 361.
In 1953 he was appointed as Assistant Government Pleader and in 1959, the Government Pleader at Madras.
A charge of corruption against a superior Judge amounting to criminal misconduct by abuse of his office would certainly fail within the ambit of misbehaviour con templated under Article 124(5), since misbehaviour of a Judge in the form of corruption by abuse of his office would be an act of gross misbehaviour justifying his removal from office, irrespective of other legal sanction, if any, to punish a corrupt Judge.
Such an exercise by the Court does not amount to construing an ambiguous provision to advance the object of its enactment, but would be an act of trenching upon a virgin field of legislation and bringing within the ambit of the existing legislation a category of persons outside it, to whom it was not intended to apply either as initially enacted or when amended later.
The provision for sanction is like the keystone in the arch of the enactment.
The difficulty of sanction under Section 6 for the prosecution of superior Judges and the special provisions contained in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 read with Article 2 18, it was suggested, pre sented no difficulty since the President of India could be treated as the competent authority to grant sanction in accordance.
This appeal by certificate under Articles 132(1) and 134(1)(e) of the Constitution has been filed by the former Chief Justice of the Madras High Court against the Full Bench decision of the same High Court refusing to quash the criminal proceedings taken against him.
The expression "public servant" used in the Preven tion of Corruption Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Act ') is undoubtedly wide enough to denote every judge, including Judges of the High Court and the Supreme Court.
" Section 4 provides: 4.
The removal of a Judge does not take .place automatically on commission or omission of a particular act or acts or on fulfilment of certain prescribed conditions.
Section 2 provides: "2.
In order to form an objective opin ion, the competent authority must undoubtedly have before it the version of the public servant on the basis of which the conclusion can be reached whether it amounts to satisfactory account or not.
Section 5A deals with investi gation into cases under this Act and Section 6 is the provi sion for previous sanction necessary for prosecution.
Article 361(2) confers immunity from criminal prosecution only to the President and Governors of States and to no others.
These provi sions were made in the Constitution and the law thereunder enacted when the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 was in the Statute Book.
On 1.5.
On 24.2.
A single dishonest judge not only dis 263 honours himself and disgraces his office but jeopardizes the integrity of the entire judicial system.
If for any reason the Comptroller and Auditor General and the Chief Election Commissioner be considered outside the purview of the Act, that would itself indicate exclusion of certain similar constitutional func tionaries from the purview of the Act.
Criminal misconduct. (1) A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct (a) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other per son, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in Section 161 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), or 276 (b) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain for himself or for any other person, any valuable thing without consideration or for a consider ation which he knows to be ' inadequate from any person whom he knows to have been, or to be, or to be likely to be concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or about to be transacted by him.
Clause (5) of Article 124 enables enactment of a special law by the Parliament to regulate the procedure for presentation of an address and for the 'investigation ' and 'proof ' of the 'misbehaviour ' or incapacity of a Judge under clause (4).
XXX XXX XXX SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS XXX XXX XXX 117.
The special law envisaged by Article 124(5) for dealing with the misbehaviour of a Judge covers the field of 'investigation ' and 'proof ' of the 'misbehaviour ' and the only punishment provided is by Article 124(4) of removal from office.
(Para. 12.2) XXX XXX XXX REPORT ON THE GOVERNMENT SERVANTS ' CONDUCT RULES XXX XXX XXX Rule 15 15.
vs Union of Inida & Ors. etc.
XXX XXX XXX 5A. Investigation into cases under this Act. (1) Notwithstanding anything con tained in the Code of Crimi 277 nal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), no police officer below the rank, (a) in the case of the Delhi Special Police Establishnent, of an Inspector of Police; (b) in the presidency towns of Calcutta and Madras, of an Assistant Commissioner of Po lice; (c) in the presidency town of Bombay, of Superintendent of Police; and (d) elsewhere, of a Deputy Superintendent of Police, shall investigate any offence punishable under Section 161.
Section 5 provides: "5(1) A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct (a) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other per son, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in section 161 of the Indian Penal Code, or (b) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain for himself or for any other person, any valuable thing without consideration or for a con 234 sideration which he knows to be inadequate, from any person whom he knows to have been, or to be, or to be likely to be concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or about to be transacted by him, or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate, or from any person whom he knows to be inter ested in or related to the person so con cerned, or (c) if he dishonestly or fraudulent|y misap propriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do, or (d) if he, by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advan tage (or) (e) if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
In fact, the report under Section 173(2) purports to be an opinion of the investigating officer that as far as he is concerned he has been able to procure sufficient material for the trial of the accused by the Court.
XXX XXX XXX 4.
Section 6 providing for prior sanction from the competent authority and directing that no court shall take cognizance of the offence under Section 5(1) without such prior sanction is indeed a protection for Judges from frivolous and malicious prosecution.
Power general ly is not conferred on an individual person.
A grant of sanction is not an idle formality but a solemn and sacrosanct act which removes the umbrella of protection of Government servants against frivolous prosecutions and the aforesaid requirements must therefore, be strictly complied with before any prosecution could be launched against public servants.
As observed by this Court in Satya Narain Musadi and Ors.
290 other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office '.
XXX XXX XXX 324.
Interpretation.
The social sanction of their own community was visualised as sufficient safeguard with im peachment and removal from office under Article 124(4) being the extreme step needed, if at all.
The prescribed authority for giving prior sanction for such persons would be the Central Govern ment.
(2) If, from information received or otherwise, a police officer has reason to suspect the commission of an offence which.he is empowered to investigate under subsection (1) and considers that for the purpose of investigation or inquiry into such offence, it is necessary to inspect any bankers ' books, then, notwithstanding anything conrained in any law for the time being in force, he may inspect any bankers ' books in so far as they relate to the accounts of the person suspected to have committed that offence or of any other person suspected to be holding money on 278 behalf of such person, and take or cause to be taken certified copies of the relevant entries therefrom, and the bank concerned shall be bound to assist the police officer in the exercise of his powers under this sub section: Provided that no power under this sub section in relation to the accounts of any person shall be exercised by a police officer below the rank of Superintendent of Police, unless he is specially authorised in this behalf by a police officer of or above the rank of a Superintendent of Police.
while Balasubrahmanyan, J. dissent ed.
In the case of such public servants whenever sanction to prosecute is sought under Section 6 of the Act, the competent authority can form the requisite opinion on the basis of the available material including the service record of the public servant to come to the conclusion whether the offence under clause (e) of possession of disproportionate assets which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account is made out prima facie.
On the argument of Mr. Sibal, the matter will have to be closed with his removal and he will escape the crimi nal liability and even the ill gotten money would not be confiscated.
Shri Kapil Sibal, learned counsel for the appellant advanced two arguments only.
The terms of clause (e) indicates that the principle underlying section 5(3) appears to have been elevated to a substantive offence in somewhat different words.
The Committee attaches great impor tance to the changes recommended in the exist ing Rule 15 relating to the acquisition and disposal of property by Government servants.
Under article II, section 4, U.S. Constitution, the President, VicePresident and 'all civil officers of the United States can be removed from office on impeachment for, and convic tion of, "Treason, Bribery or other high Crimes and misde meanours".
No further order from any other authority for their removal is necessary.
The section further provides that the Committee shall frame definite charges against the Judge on the basis of which the investigation is proposed to be held and the Judge shall be given a reasonable opportunity of presenting a written statement of defence.
The first part of clause (e) of Section 5(1) as seen earlier relates to the proof of assets possessed by the public servant.
In reply, the learned Solicitor General, 272 who was followed by the learned Additional Solicitor Gener al, strenuously urged that the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court also fall within the purview of the Act being 'public servants ', which definition is wide enough to include 'every Judge '.
Section 2 of the Act adopts the definition of "public servant" as given in Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code, which includes "Every Judge".
There is no merit whatso ever in this point either.
Clause (e) creates a statutory offence which must be proved by the prosecution.
It has not, however, been suggested, and rightly, that the Parliament lacks jurisdiction in passing a law for trial and conviction of High Court and Supreme Court Judges in cases where they are guilty of committing criminal offences.
The investigating officer is not holding an enquiry against the conduct of the public servant or deter mining the disputed issues regarding the disproportionality between the assets and the income of the accused.
Shamsher Singh vs State of Punjab, [ 14 and S.P. Gupta vs Union of India, [1982] 2 SCR 365.
The Constitution, while providing that their position would be akin to that of a Judge of the Supreme Court, could not have intended to place them on a pedestal higher than that of a Supreme Court Judge.
Section 19 reads: "19.
Moreover, no machin ery having legal sanction behind it for hold ing an inquiry disciplinary or otherwise against the concerned Judge on allegations of misbehaviour and or lack of integrity obtains in the Constitution or any law made by the Parliament, save and except the regular proc ess of removal indicated in article 124(4) and (5) read with article 218 and the Judges (In quiry) Act, 1968."Therefore, the important question that arises in such cases of suspect ed misbehaviour and/or reported lack of integ rity is who will decide and how whether the concerned Judge has in fact indulged in any misbehaviour or act of corruption? In the absence of satisfactory machinery possessing legal sanction to reach a positive conclusion on the alleged misbehaviour or an act of corruption the decision to drop him shall have been arrived at merely on the basis of opin ions, reports, rumours or gossip and apart from being unfair and unjust to him such a course will amount to striking at the root of judicial independence.
It is for the Parliament to decide whether that stage has reached in the superior judiciary when legal sanction alone can be the remedy for maintenance of public confidence in the integrity of the superior judiciary without which independence of the judiciary would itself be in jeopardy.
Criminal Appeal No. 400 of 1979.
P. No. 265 of 1978.
In the case of Union of India vs Sankalchand, AIR 1977 (SC) 2328 it has been observed by majority of the Constitution Bench that there is no need or justification, in order to uphold or protect the independ ence of the judiciary, for construing Article 222(1) to mean that a Judge cannot be transferred from one High Court to another without his consent.
His first contention is that the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court are not within the purview of the Act, which is a special enactment applicable to public servants, in whose case prosecution can be launched after sanction granted under Section 6 of the Act, which is alien to the scheme envisaged for constitu tional functionaries like Judges of the High Courts and Supreme Court.
The holder of the office alone would have opportunity to abuse or misuse the of fice.
To meet this objec tion it was contended that it is permissible for us to issue the suggested direction because the Chief Justice of India is not a stranger in the matter of appointment of a Judge of the High Court or the Supreme Court; rather he is very much in the picture.
So far offences punishable under Sections 161, 164 and 165 of the Indian Penal Code are concerned they are also subject to such previous sanction.
In S.P. Gupta & Ors.
The High Court Judge retires at 62, while the Supreme Court Judge retires at 65.
Since the order of removal in such a case is to be made by the President, the learned Solicitor General contended that the competent authority to remove such a Judge as required by Section 6(1)(c) is the President and it is in this manner that Section 6(1)(c) is attracted.
This appeal is by a certificate granted by the High Court under Articles 132(1) and 134(1)(c) of the Constitu tion of India in view of the important question of law involved for decision.
VI, pp. 274 76) The framers of the Constitution had visualized the higher echelons of the judiciary as comprised of men of strong moral and ethical fibre who would provide moral leadership in the society of free India and function as the sentinel of the other wings of the State not needing scruti ny themselves.
Article 124 provides, so far as material, as follows: "124.
No doubt section 4(1) provides for pre sumption of guilt in cases falling under sections 5(1)(a) and (b), but there was, in our opin ion, no need to mention section 5(1)(a) therein.
The subordinate judici ary, therefore, also needs the same independence which is essential for the higher judiciary.
The other argument of Shri Sibal is that one of the essential ingredients of the offence of criminal misconduct, defined in Section 5(1)(e) of the Act, which is punishable under Section 5(2) thereof, is the inability of the accused to satisfactorily account for possession of disproportionate assets, which must be evident from the documents annexed to the charge sheet to enable the Special Judge to take cognizance of the offence and this can be possible only if the accused is asked to give his account before filing of the charge sheet.
This is the only argument for this purpose and, therefore, its tenability has to be tested.
He was fined forty thousand pounds, a monumental sum, and imprisoned in the Tower during the King 's pleasure." He was also barred forever from hold ing any office in the "State or Commonwealth" or from sit ting in Parliament, or from coming "within the verge of the Court." King James however, liberated him from prison, remitted his fine, and pardon him fully (The Corrupt Judge by Joseph Borkin 1962 ed.
In a society governed by rule of law power is conferred on office or acquired by statutory status and the individual occupying the office or on whom status is conferred enjoys the power of office or power flowing from the status.
In short, it is for the purpose of construction of the provisions of the enactment and deter mining its scope that Section 6 which prescribes the condi tion precedent of previous sanction for prosecution for the offence of criminal misconduct punishable under Section 5(2) of the Act, holds the key which unlocks the true vistas of the enactment.
(2) Where for any reason whatsoever any doubt arises whether the previous sanction as re quired under sub section (1) should be given by the Central or State Government or any other authority, such sanction shall be given by that Government or authority which would have been competent to remove the public servant from his office at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed.
forwarded in custody under Sec. 170.
Such a construc tion has undoubtedly to be avoided.
A.R. Antulay, The question is, therefore, no longer res integra.
Section 21 of the IPC is not really defining "public servant" but enumerating the categories of public servants.
Can the Chief Justice of a High Court or any of its puisne Judges be prosecuted for an offence punishable under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act ')? This is the main question arising for decision in this appeal.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsections (1) and (2), the court may decline to draw the presumption referred to in either of the said sub sections if the gratification or thing aforesaid is, in its opinion, so trivial that no inference of corruption may fairly be drawn.
As has been suggested by my learned Brother Shetty, J. that the President is given the power to appoint the Judges of the Supreme Court as well as of the High Court by warrant under his hand and seal and similarly even after passing of an address by both the Houses of the Parliament in the manner provided in Article 124, clauses (4) and (5) and placed before the President, a Judge cannot be removed from his office unless and order to that effect is passed by the President.
XXX XXX XXX (4) A Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of the House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
The main point for consideration is whether the Chief Justices and puisne Judges of the High Courts are within the purview of the Act.
Article 2 18 lays down that a Judge of the High Court may be removed from his office by the President in the manner provided under clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124.
Not,/withstanding the general rule that the burden of proof lies exclusively upon the prosecution, in the case of certain c fences, the burden of proving a particular fact in issue may be laid by law upon the accused.
The application of the ejusdem generis rule is only to general word following words which are less general, or the general word following particular and specific words of the same nature.
In Union of India vs S.H. Sheth, ; at 450 Chandrachud, J., as he then was, has illu mined this idea: "the Judges owe their appointment to the Constitution and hold a position of privilege under it.
account for his possession of disproportionate assets.
Explanation.
Article 121 provides "that no discussion shall take place in Parliament with respect to the conduct of any Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High ' Court in the discharge of his duties except upon a motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of the Judge as hereinaf ter provided.
The second, allied question, is as to the invalidity of the charge sheet filed in the instant case in as such as it failed to incorporate the essential ingredient of the offence.
From the standpoint of justice the size of the bribe or scope of corruption cannot be the scale for measuring a judge 's dishonour.
This report is an intimation to the magis trate that upon investigation into a cognizable offence the investigating officer has been able to procure sufficient evidence for the Court to inquire into the offence and the necessary information is being sent to the Court.
Counsel laid great emphasis on the expression "for which he account satisfactorily account" used in clause (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act.
, AIR 1982 (SC) 149.
It is significant that clause (5) of Article 124 covers the field of 'investiga tion ' and 'proof ' of the 'misbehaviour ' of a Judge.
In a criminal trial, the burden of proving everything essential to establish the charge against the accused lies upon the prosecution, and that burden never shifts.
The construction made of the provisions of the Act must also fit in with the scheme of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 read with Article 2 18 of the Constitution in order to present a harmonious scheme.
The object underlying such provision Was to save the public servant from the harassment of frivolous or unsubstantiated allegations.
The trial of Criminal Case No. 46/77 filed by the Respondent be proceeded with.
Section 6(1)(c) of the Act speaks of the "authority competent to remove him from his office".
There is no criminal sanction which is specifical ly applicable only to judicial behaviour; rather, the judges are included in those criminal provisions which apply gener ally to public servants, such as provisions concerning corruption, omission or refusal to perform activities of office, vexation, etc.
On 24 February 1976, the CBI registered a case against him with issuance of a First Information Report which was filed in one of the Courts at New Delhi.
It was sug gested that some machinery involving the Chief Justice of India for grant of sanction for prosecution by the President of India, even for investigation into the offence, could be suggested by this Court for implicit compliance by the executive.
On 229 1 May 1969, he became the Chief Justice of the Madras High Court.
The history of insertion of this clause:, y the 1964 amend ment to the Act is well known.
The need for sanction under Section 6 for prosecution of the holder of a public office indicates the ambit and scope of the enactment for deciding whether the holder of a public office falls within the purview of the enactment.
Mr. Tulsi, learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that he has no objection for this Court for issuing a direction against the Government of India to follow that procedure in every case.
The scheme of the exist ing law to deal with such situations was considered at length and it was also held that even the power to transfer under Article 222 of the Constitution to another High Court could not be exercised for these reasons.
In 1917, Justice Archibald of the Commerce Court was 'removed from office by impeachment for soliciting for himself and others, favours from railroad companies, some of which were at the time litigants in his court; in 1936 the removal of Judge Wright of the Florida Court for conduct in relation to a receivership Which evoked serious doubts as to this integ rity, although he was acquitted of specific charges, seem to have restored the wider view.
p. 297).
The Act is wholly workable in its existing form for the public servants within its purview and there is no impediment in its applicability to the large number of public servants who have been dealt with thereunder ever since its enactment.
The inescapable con 304 clusion, therefore, is that the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, as amended by the 1964 amendment is inapplicable to Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court.
XXX XXX XXX (4) A Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
The other alternative, namely, to continue him as an Additional Judge for another term or to make him permanent if a vacancy is available and then take action for his removal under the regular process indicat ed in article 124(4) and (5) read with article 2 18 and Judges (Inquiry) Act,1968 may sound absurd but must be held to be inevitable if judicial independence, a cardinal faith of our Consti tution, is to be preserved and safeguarded.
The report under Section 173(2) is generally called as the charge sheet, and we would also prefer to term it as the charge sheet.
The patchwork of proposing guidelines suggested by the learned Solicitor General apart from being an impermissible judicial exercise, also does not present a complete and harmonious picture and fails to provide answers to several obvious querries which arise.
Therefore, the corrupt conduct is directly attributable and flows from the power con ferred on the office.
Clause (4) of Article 61 reads as follows: "61(4) If as a result of the investigation a resolution is passed by a majority of not less than two thirds of the total membership of the House by which the charge was investigated or caused to be investigated, declaring that the charge preferred against the President has been sustained, such resolution shall have the effect of removing the President from his office as from the date on which the resolu tion is so passed.
Section 3(1) provides for giving notice of a motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of a Judge, (a) in the case of a notice of motion given in the House of the People, it should be signed by not less than one hundred members of that House; (b) in the case of a notice given in the Council of States, it should be signed by not less than fifty mem bers of that Council.
In 1953 he was appointed as Assistant Government Pleader.
The Act no doubt provides certain safeguards.
If the chief Justices of opinion that it is not a fit case for grant of sanction for prosecution of the Judge concerned the Presi dent shall not accord sanction to prosecute the Judge;This will save the Judge concerned from unnecessary harassment as weal as from frivolous prosecution against him as suggested by my learned brother Shetty, J. in his judgment.
Clause (2) of Article 124 provides that every Judge of the Supreme Court shah be appointed by the Presi dent in consultation with such of the Judges of the supreme Court and of the High Courts as the President may deem necessary for the purpose and in case of appointment of a Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of/India shall always be consulted.
Presumption where public servant accepts gratification other than legal remu neration. (1) Where in any trial of an of fence punishable under Section 16 1 or Section 165 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or of an offence 275 referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub section (1) of Section 5 of this Act punishable under sub section (2) thereof, it is proved that an accused person has accepted or obtained, or as agreed to accept or at tempted to obtain, for himself or for any other person, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing from any person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that he accepted or ob tained, or agreed to accept or attempted to obtain that gratification or that valuable thing as the case may be as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in the said Section 161, or, as the case may be, without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate.
No excuse or no legal relativity can condone such betrayal.
Likewise, Section 77 IPC gives them protection from criminal liability for an act performed judicially.
The author states.
The matter was heard by a full bench of the High Court which dismissed the application by order dated 27.4.
Similarly, a Judge of the High Court shall be appointed by the President by the warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and in case of an appoint ment of the Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court and shall hold office except in the case of an additional judge till he attains the age of 62 years.
Therefore a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court comes within the defini tion of public servant and he is liable to be prosecuted under the provisions of 'the Prevention of Corruption Act.
The section does not contemplate a notice to be served on the accused.
250 In the event of President regarded as the authority competent to give prior sanction for the prosecution of a Judge, counsel for the appellant contended, that the Presi dent cannot act independently.
p.p. 369 370) The proved "misbehaviour" which is the basis for removal of a Judge under clause (4) of Article 124 of the Constitu tion may also in certain cases involve an offence of crimi nal misconduct under section S(1) of the Act.
Article 124(5) con 301 templates a special law enacted by the Parliament even for investigation into any allegation of misbehaviour which must include an allegation of corruption.
Appointment of superi or Judges is from amongst persons of mature age with known background and reputation in the legal profession.
291 There are several fallacies in this argument.
The State is an organisation committed to public good; it is not an end in itself.
The has been enacted by Parliament to regulate 224 the procedure for the investigation and proof of the misbe haviour or incapacity of a Judge of the Supreme Court under clause (5) of subsection 1 of Article 124 of the Constitu tion.
Since the Constitu tion itself has considered it adequate in the matter of dealing with serious accusations against the Judges by incorporating the provisions of Clauses (4) and (5) in Article 124, they must be treated to be appropriate and suitable; and should be resorted to in the matter of prose cution also, in view of the Parliament enacting Section 6 of the Act in the language which attracts the constitutional provisions.
Sub article 4 of the said article 124 further enjoins that a Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total member ship of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting has 218 been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is in my considered opinion, wholly in accordance with law and as such the Order of the High Court has to be upheld in any circumstances.
In the case of the Comptroller and Auditor General and the Chief Election Commissioner, the situation would be more piquant.
and corruption by public servant.
(Jackson 's Machinery of Justice by J.R. Spencer 8th ed.
The investigation of the case by CBI was however, con tinued with the culmination of filing a final report.
XXX XXX XXX 218.
XXX XXX XXX 218.
Article 2 18 provides that the provisions of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 shall apply in relation to a High Court as they apply in relation to the Supreme Court.
The provisions of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 shall apply in relation to a High Court as they apply in relation to the Supreme Court with the substitution of refer ence to the High Court for references to the Supreme Court.
Mr. Kapil Sibal learned Counsel for the appellant stressed the need to read clause (c) in "ejusdem generis" to clauses (a) and (b).
The scheme of the Act is that a public servant who commits the offence of criminal misconduct, as defined in the seven clauses of Sub section (1) of Section 5, can be punished in accordance with Subsection (2) of Section 5, after investigation of the offence in the manner prescribed and with the previous sanction of the competent authority obtained under Section 6 of the Act, in a trial conducted according to the prescribed procedure.
The President is not an outsider so far judiciary is concerned.
Article 67(b) of the Constitution provides that the Vice President may be removed from his office by a resolution of the Council of States passed by a majority of all the then members of the Council and agreed to by the House of People.
It is for the purpose of construing the provisions of the enactment and determining the scope and ambit thereof and for deciding whether the holder of a public office comes within the purview of the enactment that the feasibility of previous sanction for prosecution and applicability of Section 6 of the Act is important.
On 28 February 1976, a copy of the First Information Report was personally taken by the Investigating Officer to Madras and it was filed before the Court of Special Judge, Madras.
Mr. Tulsi, learned Additional Solicitor General, on the other hand, emphasised on the role of the President in relation to removal of a Judge.
In other countries, howev er, such as Poland, Greece and Italy, a different approach prevails.
These sections codify a well recognised truism that power has the tendency to corrupt.
In Maharashtra vs K.K.S. Ramaswamy; , , Shinghal, J., said (at 276) that the result of the enactment of clause (e) is that mere possession of pecuniary resources or property dispro portionate to the known sources of income of a public serv ant, for which he could not satisfactorily account, became an offence by itself although Section 5(3) which existed prior to Section 5(1)(e) did not constitute an offence.
The view that Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court are outside the purview of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act, fits in with the constitutional scheme and is also in harmony with the several nuances of the entire existing law relating to the superior Judges while the contrary view fouls with it at several junctures and leaves many gaping holes which cannot be filled by judicial exercise.
And since there was no such sanction obtained the Court has no juris diction to take cognizance of the case.
In a letter dated 18th December, 1947, to the Prime Minister, Pt.
II, page 1698 paras 18.8 and 18.9).
K. JAGANNATHA SHETTY, J.
And the offence complained of under clause (e) of Section 5(1) is not made out without such exercise and finding by the Investigating Officer.
The Committee considered the argument that there was no need for the submission of periodical returns of assets and liabilities and that it would be sufficient if such a statement is given once either on entry or after promulgation of these rules and that thereafter it should be enough if the Govern ment servant is required to report all trans actions in immovable property and all transac tions in movable property exceeding a speci fied value.
In the proposed guidelines, it was suggested that the involvement of the Chief Justice of India invariably should be read even for commencing the 298 investigation into the offence and the President, while granting the sanction under Section 6(1)(c), would also act on the advice of the Chief Justice of India.
It is a question of 293 choosing the lesser evil and in inevitable course has to ' be adopted not for the protec tion of the corrupt or dishonest judge but for protecting several other honest, conscientious and hard working Judges by preserving their independence; it is a price which the Society has to pay to avoid the greater evil that will ensue if judicial independence is sacrificed.
Section 77 of the Indian Penal Code provides immunity to the Judges in respect of any act done by a Judge when acting judicially in the exercise of any power which is, or which in good faith he believes to be, given to him by law.
The public servant defined under section 2 means a public serv ant as defined in Section 21 of the IPC.
If this scheme is found to be inadequate in the present context, it is also indicative of the failure of the constitutional functionaries involved in the process of appointments in fulfilling the confidence reposed in them.
p. 3, 4.
The details of the offence are required to be proved to bring home the guilt to the accused at a later stage i.e. in the course of the trial of the case "adducing acceptable evidence.
Bribery is a form of corruption.
Clause (b) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the affairs of the State.
The Full Bench of the High Court by majority view has dismissed his case.
The Judges (Inquiry) Rules, 1969 have been framed under section 7(4) of the .
Perhaps the setting up of vigilance organisa tion under the direct control of the Chief Justice of every High Court coordinated by a Central Vigilance Officer under the Chief Justice of India may prove to be an appropri ate method.
Perhaps the setting up of vigilance organisations under the direct control of the Chief Justice of every High Court coordinated by a Central Vigilance Officer under the Chief Justice of India may prove to be an appropriate method.
The Section 5(3) further provides that the convic tion for an offence of criminal misconduct shall not be invalid by reason that it is based solely on such presump tion.
Thus, even for the procedure for investigation into any misbehaviour of a Judge as well as its proof, a law enacted by the Parliament under Article 124(5) is envisaged in the constitutional scheme.
Where the office held by the public servant is not a part of vertical hierarchy in which there is an authority above the public servant, then, Section 6 can have no appli cation.
Remove the keystone of sanc tion and the arch crumbles.
vs State of Punjab, ; and S.P. Gupta & Ors. etc.
In State of Maharashtra vs Wasudeo Ramachandra Kaidal war; , , Sen, J., spelled out succintly the insight of clause (e) of Section 5(1) (at pp.
Any complaint against a Judge and its investigation by the CBI, if given publicity will have a far reaching impact on the Judge and the litigant public.
Sub article (5) also provides that Parliament may by law regulate the procedure for the presentation of an address and for the investigation and proof of the misbehaviour or incapacity of a Judge under clause (4).
Naturally, all others are excluded from taking cognizance of them and acting on them . . (Venkataramiah, J.) (pp.
The issuance of the First Information RepOrt and the subsequent filing of the charge sheet were impeached.
The Chief Justice of India is a participatory functionary in the 254 matter of appointment of Judges of the Supreme Court and the High Courts.
But that is no ground for withholding criminal prosecution till the Judge is removed by Parliament as suggested by counsel for the appellant.
The purpose of grant of previ ous sanction before prosecuting a public servant i.e. a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court is to pro tect the Judge from unnecessary harassment and frivolous prosecution more particularly to save the Judge from the biased prosecution for giving judgment in a case which goes against the Government or its officers though 'based on good reasons and rule of law.
It was only after the Chief Justice expressed his views that the appellant could be proceeded under the provi sions of the Act, the case was registered against him.
By that age the personality is fully developed and the propensities and background of the appointee is well known.
(2) Any public servant who commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
The need for his prosecution was not visualised and, therefore, not provided for in the existing law.
The President appoints the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court in exercise of his executive powers.
It is for this reason that the higher.
A large number of cases are finally decided at the stage of the subordinate judiciary.
In a civi lised society the law cannot be assumed to be leading to such disturbing results.
In view of the elaborate discus sion of the facts and law in the judgments of my learned brothers, I am refraining from dealing with them in detail, and am indicating my reasons briefly.
The situation here is entirely different.
Apart from the argument of the learned counsel for the appellant that the inability to satisfactorily account for possession of disproportionate assets is an ingredient of the offence in clause (e), practical require ment of this clause is a further pointer to indicate inap plicability thereof to a Judge of a High Court or the Su preme Court.
No. more, in our opinion, is required to be stated in the charge sheet.
For the foregoing reasons, we dismiss the appeal and direct the trial court to proceed with the case expeditious ly.
P.C. and clause (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act.
The recom mendations of the Santhanam Committee after which the 1964 amendment inserting clause (e) in Sub section (1) of Section 5 was made, suggest some amendment to the rules governing the conduct of public servants for giving periodical infor mation of all their assets.
The question, then, is as to what is the protection available under the law as it exists today, to the independ ence of the judiciary of the country.
Comptroller and Auditor General of India.(1) There shall be a Comptroller and Auditor General of India who shall be appoint ed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal and shall only be removed from office in like manner and on the like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme Court.
Clause (a) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the affairs of the Union.
The importance of an order of the President for removal of a Judge could be seen by contrasting the provisions of clause (4) of Article 124 with the provisions for removal of the President, VicePresident and Speaker.
This is the only manner in which these provisions of the Act can be harmonized and given full effect.
The framers of the Constitution had visualised that the constitutional scheme for appointment of the superior Judges would ensure that by an honest exercise performed by all the constitutional functionaries of their obligation in the process of appointment of a superior Judge, there would be no occasion to try and punish any appointee to such a high office for an act of corruption.
Counsel for the appellant while referring to the afore mentioned provisions of the Constitution pointed out that the power to remove a Judge is not vested in any single individual or authority.
In a case like the present, the only answer can be a definite 'yes ' or definite 'no ', but not 'yes ' with the addition of the legislative require ments in the enactment which are wholly absent and without which the answer cannot be 'yes '.
In a number of national systems one can also find the provision of criminal sanctions for certain acts or omissions that are typical only of the administration of Justice, such as deni de justice, or wilful abuse of the judicial office.
