The writ petition accordingly fails and it is dismissed.
(ii) All 'poisons ' mentioned in clause (x) of rule 2 shall be kept in a room or building (according to quantity maintained) which shall be secured by lock and key in a separate receptacle of glass, metal and earthenware etc.
(Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India).
Section 4 of the Act impliedly sets out certain guidelines when the State can notify a substance as poison.
Section 2 224 also enables the Government by Rule to regulate the posses sion for sale and the sale of the specified poison.
(C) No. 677 of 1988.
Of course no comprehensive definition can be given to the word poison.
It has become a notorious fact, which we can even take judicial notice of, that the substance known as 'thinner ' as it is or mixing with some other substances are taken as intoxicating spirits endangering the life.
No question of discrimination can arise in such circumstances.
Nothing is a poison unless regard be had to its administration.
(G) dated 7.8.1973 the Lt. Governor of Delhi amended the Delhi Poisons Rules, 1926 (hereinafter called the Rules) by including to the list of substances included in the Rules as "Poisons" "the substance commonly known 222 as 'thinner ' containing spirit and other soluble material such as shellac in which the percentage of such soluble material does not exceed 30%" as poison and consequential amendment of rules 12 and 13 of the Rules.
Section 5 of the Act the con stitutional validity of which is questioned reads as fol lows: "5.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by V. RAMASWAMI, J.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, the petitioners have questioned the con stitutional validity of Section 5 of the (12 of 1919) (hereinafter called 'the Act ').
Rule nisi is discharged.
This posi tion is well settled and it would be pedantic to cite all the authorities of this Court on this point.
It is not all poisonous substances that are brought within the regula tion under the Act.
Section 2(3) of the , 1/1904 defined poison as: "Any substance which were applied to the body internally or externally, or in any way intro duced into the system, is capable, without acting mechanically, but by its own inherent qualities,.
" It was a law in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and as such continued in force.
It was the con tention of the petitioners before the authorities that their "unit is manufacturing only those thinners which contain only liquid substance, like as ecotone, ethyl acetate SDS etc.
Kapil Sibal, Additional Solicitor General, Ms. A. Subha shini and K. Swamy for the Respondents.
It was further contended that the restriction imposed on possession for sale and sale were not reasonable restrictions.
or destroying life? When this Act 1/1904 was repealed and re enacted as Poison Act 12 of 1919 the definition was omitted and speci fied substances were included in the schedule with a power vested in the State Government to amend the same by Rules including other substances to the list of poisons.
In exercise of this power by the Notification No. F. 10/44/72 fin.
P.N. Duda, N. Safaya, P.K. Choudhary and Ms. Rekha Pandey for the Petitioners.
Some substances were includ ed in the Rules made in 1926 as poisons and that is not in dispute.
The object of the enactment is to regulate the posses sion for sale and the sale, whether wholesale or retail of poisons and the importation of the same.
