If the preceding clauses were not erased from the statute book as unconstitu tional the kinsfolk would have exercised the right in the order of preference, for which no justification was found.
In Atam Prakash s case, this Court, therefore, held that what was said about the right of pre emption granted to co sharers in relation to Article 19(1)(1) of the Constitution applied with equal force to justify the classification in relation to Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution.
There will be no order as to costs throughout.
Accord ing to section 15 of this Act before its amendment in1960, in the case of sale of a share out of joint land or proper ty, the right of preemption was conferred firstly on the lineal descendents of the vendor in order of succession; secondly, in the co sharers, if any, who are agnates, in order of succession; thirdly in persons not included under firstly or secondly above, in order of succession, who but for such sale would be entitled, on death of the vendor, to inherit the land or property sold and fourthly, in the co sharers.
His contention is that he falls within the expression other co sharers ' in clause 'Fourthly ' of section 15(1)(b) and is, therefore, entitled to exercisee the right of pre emption conferred on him by that provision.
We think on a proper construction of that clause after the preceding clauses were held to be unconsti tutional the word 'other ' preceding.
We find it diffi cult to hold that the purport of the of Court 's decision in Attam Prakash 's case was to deny the right of pre emption to those relative or relatives of the vendor or vendors who were specified in the erstwhile first three clauses of section 15(1)(b) even if they happen to be co sharers.
Appeal No. 4366 of 1991.
The 1905 Act was repealed and replaced by the 1913 Act.
If the respondent No. 1 fails to do so, the Court shall appoint a Commissioner who shall execute the conveyance on behalf of the respondent No. 1 and the Court shall put the appellant in possession of the suit land.
Section 15 after its amendment in 1960 provided that where the sale is of a share out of the joint land or property and is not by all the co sharers jointly, the right of pre emption was vested, first, in the sons or daughters or son 's son or daughter 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Secondly, in the brothers or brother 's sons of the vendor or vendors; Thirdly, in the father 's brother or father 's broth er 's sons of the vendor or vendors Fourthly, in the other co sharers and Fifthly n the tenants.
; , ; wherein a two judge Bench of this Court negatived the contention in the follow ing words: "In order to understand the meaning of the words 'other co sharers ' in Section 15(1)(b) we have to read the Act as it stood before the decision in Atam Prakash 's case ; (supra).
After the surgery, section 15 underwent at the hands of this Court removing the offending pans in Atarn Prakash 's case, what survives of section 15 is that in the case of sale of agricultural land and village immovable property by a sole owner, the tenant alone can exercise the right of pre emption.
vs Nathi Mal Kejriwal & 0rs.
Finding no reasonable classifi cation it struck down 124 clauses 'first ', 'secondly ' and 'thirdly ' of section 15(1)(a), clauses 'first ', 'secondly ', and 'thirdly ' of section 15(1)(b) and clause 'first ', 'secondly ', and 'third ly ' of section 15(1)(c) and the entire section 15(2) as ultra vires the Constitution.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by AHMADI, J.
The expression 'other co sharers ' was used in the fourth clause of the said provision to ensure that no co sharer was left out or omitted and not to deny the right to kinstolk coshar ers covered by the preceding clauses.
With respect, therefore, we find it difficult to approve of the interpretation placed on clause `fourthly '; of section 15(1)Co) of the Act by this Court in Jagdish 's case.
Counsel for the appellant, however, contended that the interpretation placed by the two judge Bench on the expression 'other co sharers ' in section 15(1)(b) requires reconsideration as it leads to certain anomalous situation e.g. a sister who is a co sharer can claim pre emption while her brother cannot or a daughter 's daughter of the vendor can claim pre emption but not the son.
The right of pre emption to co sharers is held to be intra vires the Consti tution Therefore, it is difficult to hold that this Court intended to deny the right of pre emption of those kinsfolk even if they happened to be co sharers.
It also found the list of kinsfolk entitled to pre emption as intrinsically defec tive and Self contradictory.
