Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is similar to Section 107 of the Government of India Act, 1915 and there is no section like sub section (2) of Section 224 of the Government of India Act of 1935 in the Act of 1955.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is not subject to the other provisions of the Act.
In the Government of India Act of 1935, there was provision under Section 224 for superintendence by the High Courts ', but subsection(2) made it clear that this superintendence would not be construed as giving to the High Court any jurisdiction to question any judgment of any inferior court which was not otherwise subject to appeal or revision.
This case has no application for interpretation of the present Section 221 of the Act of 1955.
The contention on behalf of the appellant to that effect was negatived but on merits the High Court held that it was not appropriate for the Board to exercise the powers conferred by Section 9 of the land Revenue Act in view of the fact that the Board had appellate jurisdiction and it could not, therefore, make use of its powers of superintendence and control and the order of the Board could not be held proper with reference to Section 9 of the Land Revenue Act.
Aggrieved by the order of the Sub Divisional Officer, Raghubir Singh filed appeal before the Revenue Appellate Authority, Bikaner, who by his order dated 6th September, 1976 dismissed the same and upheld the order of the Sub Divisional Officer.
Under Section 107 of the Government of India Act, 1955 there was provision of superintendence by High Court in these terms : 728 Each of the High Courts has superintendence over all the courts for the time being subject to its appellate jurisdiction.
Section 9 whereof provides as under: "9 Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the general superintendence and control over all revenue courts and over all revenue officers shall be vested in, and all such Courts and Officers shall be subordinate to, the Board.
A similar question arose before the Rajasthan High Court in Kana and others vs
The application for adducing additional evidence was disallowed.
The first writ petition was filed by the father Raghubir Singh whereas the second writ petition was filed by his minor son Surendrapal Singh through his next friend Shri Jagjit Singh, maternal grand father of the minor.
At the same time, the power is there, and it may be exercised sparingly in extraordinary case,, where interest of justice requires that the Board should exercise the power".
If the subordinate court disregards any specific provision of law and does something illegal it is open to the Board of Revenue to interfere and set the matter right.
" The contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that the section confers executive powers of superintendence and control on the Board and it does not vest any power of superintendence on the Board on judicial side.
The appeal consequently fails and is dismissed with costs.
It was observed at page 63 of the report "of course, such powers would generally not be exercised where a party had remedy by way of appeal and revision, and did not avail of it.
Board of Revenue.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 provides as under: "221.Subordination of revenue courts.
Thus there is no restriction on the powers of the Board to set aside the order of the Sub Divisional Officer provided it comes to the conclusion that interest of justice requires exercise of such powers.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by YOGESHWAR DAYAL,J.
Appeal No. 1367 of 1980.
