Sub section (2) thereof provides that save as otherwise provided in the Act no court shall have jurisdiction to settle, decide or deal with any question which is by or under this Act required to be settled, decided or dealt with by the Mamlatdar and no order passed by him under the Act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
Section 85(1) laid down that no Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to settle, decide or deal with any question which is required to be settled, decided or dealt with by the Mamlatdar under the statute.
Since section 12 of the Rent Act was held to be prospective, the question which arose for consideration was whether its protection could be extended to tenants in pending litigation.
Section 70(b) next provided that for the purposes of the Act, one of the duties and functions to be performed by the Mamlatdar is to decide whether a person is a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant.
If such a situation arises what procedure should the court follow in a pending suit which was instituted in a competent court having jurisdiction at the date of its institution.
The tenants claimed protection of section 12 in Part 11 of the Rent Act which deprived the landlord of the right of possession under certain circumstance 1029 The question which arose for consideration was whether the tenants were entitled to the protection of section 12 in pending cases and if yes, its effect.
Feeling aggrieved by the order of dismissal of the appeal, the defendants preferred separate Second Appeals Nos.
That suit was for a declaration that the plaintiff was a lessee and for an injunction to restrain the defendants from interfering with his possession of the suit property.
After that amendment came into force, the provisions of the Act became applicable to the lands in question which were primarily used for growing coconut trees and receiving produce therefrom.
Thus, said this Court the language of the sub section applies equally to suits pending when Part 11 comes into force and those to be filed subsequently.
This finding of the High Court is difficult to sustain.
Thus the amendment came into force during the pendency of the suit.
Sub section (2) of section 8 next provides that where any person as is referred to in section 4 (deemed tenant) has been evicted from the land on or after 1st July, 1962 such person shall be entitled to recover immediate possession of the land in the manner prescribed by or under the Act unless the landlord proves that the termination of tenancy was in the manner authorised by section 9.
It is against this order of the High Court that the present appeal by special leave is preferred.
If the question of tenancy in regard to agricultural land cannot be decided by the Civil Court under the Act and there is no express saving clause permitting the Civil Court to decide the same, it is obvious that any decision rendered by the Civil Court would be without jurisdiction.
The relief is only a consequence.
Taneja for the Respondents.
It was for this technical reason that the suit was dismissed.
Take the case of suit where possession of agricultural land is sought on the plea that the defendant is a trespasser and the defendant contends that he is a tenant.
If he relinquishes any claim to bring the suit within the jurisdiction of any court he will not be entitled to claim that relief in any subsequent suit.
The first suit was dismissed on the technical ground that since the plaintiff was not in de facto possession no injunction could be granted and a suit for a mere declaration of status without seeking the consequential relief for possession could not lie.
In Shah Yograj Kuverji Oil Mills and Ginning Factory vs Subhash Chandra Yograj Sinha, ; = ; the facts were that the landlord had filed a suit for eviction on April 25, 1957 in the regular court, i.e., the Court of the Joint Civil Judge (Junior Division), Erandol, which admittedly had jurisdiction to pass a decree for possession of the demised premises.
Section 8(2) has limited operation where a person referred to in section 4 has been evicted on or after 1st July, 1962.
However, sub rule (3) of Rule 2 provides that a person entitled to more than one relief in respect of the same cause of action may sue for all or any of such reliefs; but if he omits, except with the leave of the court, to sue for all such reliefs he shall not afterwards sue for any relief so omitted.
In view of the foregoing discussion, we allow this appeal, set aside the order of the High Court which in either case lacked jurisdiction to decide the question regarding tenancy on merits and remit the matter to the Trial Court for further orders in the light of the observation hereinabove made.
This is just by way of an illustration.
Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides that 'no court shall try any suit or issue in which the matter directly and substantially in issue in a former suit between the same parties, or between parties under whom they or any of them claim, litigating under the same title, in a court competent to try such subsequent suit or the suit in which such issue has been subsequently raised, and has been heard and finally decided by such court '.
Now Order 2 concerns the framing of a suit.
If his plea was found to be well founded, he would be entitled to retain possession but not otherwise.
Sub section (11) (i) defines land inter alia to mean land which is used for agriculture or which is capable of being so used but is left fallow.
Section 29(2) of that law provided that no landlord shall obtain possession of any land or dwelling house held by a tenant except under an order of the Mamlatdar on an application made in that behalf in the prescribed form.
By virtue of section 7 any question whether a person is a tenant or a deemed tenant was required to be decided by the Mamlatdar and the jurisdiction of the Civil Court stood ousted by section 58(2) of the Act.
This question squarely arose for consideration by the Bombay High Court in Dhondi Tukaram vs Hari Dadu AIR 1954 Bom 100 ILR wherein that court observed as under: "Therefore, we hold that in a suit filed against the defendant on the footing that he is a trespasser if he raises the plea that he is a tenant or a protected tenant, the Civil Court would have no jurisdiction to deal with that plea. .
The definition of the various terms employed in the statute have been set out in section 2 thereof The expression 'agriculture ' is defined in sub section (1A) to include horticulture and raising of food crops, grass or garden produce, but not allied pursuits, meaning thereby rearing or maintaining plough bulls, breeding of livestock, dairy farming, poultry farming, grazing on grounds reserved for the purpose and such other pursuits connected with agriculture as may be prescribed.
The cause of action for that suit was not on the premise that he had in fact been illegally and forcibly dispossessed and needed the court 's assistance to be restored to possession.
In such a situation the Civil Court would not be competent to pass any order for restoration of possession to the deemed tenant.
But in the case of a deemed tenant who has been evicted from the land on or after 1st July, 1962 since a remedy has been provided under 1032 the Act, the Jurisdiction of the Civil Courts stands wholly barred by virtue of Section 58 (2) of the Act.
Sub rule (1) of Rule 2, inter alia, provides that every suit shall include the whole of the claim which the plaintiff is entitled to make in respect of the cause of action.
