The relinquishment of a tenancy is equivalent to surrender by the lessee or tenant of his rights as such.
The section which consists of two parts is in these terms:" "(1) It shall not be lawful for the tenant or any person acting or purporting to act on behalf of the tenant to claim or receive any sum or any consideration as a condi tion for the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises; 422 (2) Any tenant or person who in contravention of the provisions of sub section (1) receives any sum or considera tion shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 6 months and shall also be pun ished with fine which shall not be less than the sum or the value of the consideration received by him.
If, by the expression, an assignment such as we have in the present case was meant, appropriate words could have been used, such as the transfer by a tenant of his interest, which we find in section 108, sub clause (i), of the Trans fer of Property Act.
It says : "I, W.H. King, hereby hand over vacant possession of my flat No. 3 situated on 2nd floor and garage No. 4 on the ground floor of Ganga Vihar Building on Plot No. 55 situated on Marine Drive Road to Mr. Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia from this day onward and that I have no claim whatsoever over this flat and Mr. Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia will pay the rent directly to the landlord.
Agent for respondent No. 1: P.A. Mehta.
The section in question, it should be further noted, does not speak of relinquishment or giving up of possession,in general terms.
N: Criminal Appeal No. 8 of 1951.
Whether abandonment of a tenancy would come within the meaning of relinquishment is a question that does not arise in this appeal, because in the face of Exhibit D, there is no abandonment in the sense that the tenant disappeared from the scene altogether saying nothing and making no arrange ments about his interest and possession under the lease.
Then follows section 19 which speaks of the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises by a tenant.
Thereaf ter he applied for special leave to appeal to this Court and it was granted on 3 10 1950.
Agent for respondent No. 2: Ganpat Rai.
