The scheme of section 20 of the Abolition Act is said to be to provide, firstly that rights created by way of lease or otherwise by the landholder prior to the notified date should be deemed to be valid and all rights and obligations arising thereunder on or after the notified date should be enforceable by or against the Government.
The provision of section 20 of the Abolition Act has been considered and construed by a Bench of the Madras High Court.
Any order passed by the Board of Revenue under this rule shall be subject to revision by the Government.
(2) of section 20 of the Abolition Act.
The second proviso was enacted to nullify the creation of rights in anticipation of the impending legislation and hence it was made unconditional.
K. R. Choudhuri, for respondent No. 2. 1959.
No other point has been urged before us and for reasons stated above, we think that these appeals should be dismissed with costs and we order accordingly.
The machinery for such a termination, it is urged, is to be found in the third proviso and the conclusion is pressed upon us that such termination can be brought about only on the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
That ' rule provides that a mining lease granted by a private person shall be subject to certain conditions therein specified.
August 14.
There is no warrant for saying that the avoidance must be under the terms of the third proviso.
The Abolition Act was enacted by the Madras Legislature in exercise of the legislative power con ferred on it by the Government of India Act, 1935.
provision for payment of compensation for the determination of rights created before the notified date is provided in sub section
(1) Saving of rights of certain lessees and others.
Under that sub section a person can claim compensation only when his right is terminated by the Government under "the foregoing proviso".
" The argument of the petitioners is that the words " such rights " in the third proviso have reference to the rights created after the 1st July, 1945, mentioned in the previous proviso and on that construction, the lease in favour of the petitioners could be terminated only in accordance with that proviso by giving three months ' notice.
On September 7, 1949 the Venkatagiri estate was notified under section 3 of the Madras Estate (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act 1948 (Madras Act XXVI of 1948), hereinafter referred to as the abolition Act.
