According to the 'submission of counsel for the Commissioner of Income tax the words of sub section (1) "or any tax which would have been payable by him under this Act if he had not died" mean that irrespective of the date of ' receipt of income receivable by a person, if the income is received by his heirs and legal representatives after his death, they are liable for payment of the tax just as the deceased would have been liable when the income was received had he been living.
The question before us is whether the income which was received subsequent to the previous year in which Amarchand died is liable to be assessed to income tax under section 24B as his income in the hands of his heirs and legal representatives.
The order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was therefore upheld, On the application of the Commissioner of 703 Income tax the following question of law was referred to the High Court : "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the sums of Rs.
The assessments so made were for the assessment years 1950 51, 1951 52, 1952 53, 1953 54 and 1954 55:
34,899/ , Rs. 13,402,/ and Rs.
Sub section (2) provides that if a person dies before the publication of the public notice under s.22 (1) or before a notice is served on him under sub sections 2 of section 22 or section 34 then the Income tax Officer may proceed to compute or assess the total income of the deceased person as if the heirs and legal representatives were the assessees Sub section (3) provides that when a person dies before a return is furnished by him under the provisions of section 22 or dies after having furnished the return which the (1) (1938) 22
(1), but in that case also the amount was received by the widow in the previous year and it was earned by the deceased during the previous year.
It was held that no assessment could be made under section 23(4) of the Act after his death.
43,162/ , Rs.
710 of the deceased Amarchand and are not liable to be taxed in the hands of the heirs and legal representatives who cannot be deemed to be assessees for the purpose of assessment in regard to those years.
37,847/ , As.
In the present case the accounts were kept on cash basis.
In our view the High Court rightly answered the question in the negative and against the Commissioner of Income tax.
It was held that this income was taxable.
The appeals therefore fail and are dismissed with costs.
See Ellis C. Reid vs Commissioner of Income tax, Bombay(2).
Against that order an appeal was taken to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and then to the Appellate Tribunal.
