" Sub section (4) "Where the person who was at the commencement of the Indian Income tax(Amendment) Act, 1939 (VII of 1939), carrying on any business, profession or vocation on which tax was at any time charged under the provisions of the Indian Income tax Act, 1918, is succeeded in such capacity by another person, the change not being merely a change in the constitution of a partnership, no tax shall be payable by the 116 first mentioned person in respect of the income, profits and gains of the period between the end of the previous year and the date of such succession, and such person may further claim that the income, profits and gains of the previous year shall be deemed to have been the income, profits and gains of the said period.
In Cl the preamble was as follows: "Whereas Partners 1 to 4 have been carrying on a business as Partners from the beginning of Samvat 1994 (Guzarathi Era) in the manufacture and sale of Soaps under the name of "The Vegetable Soap Works" Proprietors Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co., and in the manufacture and sale of Umbrellas in Calicut with branches at Madras and Bombay under the name and style of Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co., Soap and Umbrella Merchants at Calicut and Madras and in the name of Sha Nagjee Purushotham & Co. at Bombay hereinafter called the Firm.
It was held that he was not entitled to the benefit of section 25 (3) as the business was not discontinued.
The Agreement of Partnership dated the 6th day of December 1918 is hereby revoked and the affairs of the Firm shall be regulated and governed by the Regulations agreed upon orally and reduced into writing in this Deed and the terms and conditions of the revoked deed shall not in future apply to the "Firm" ' except such as have been repeated in this Deed.
That being so, there can be no question of the succession to the business carried on at the commencement of the Indian Income tax (Amendment) Act, 1939, that is, April 1, 1939 and on which tax was charged under the Act of 1918 having taken place in 1948 as claimed by the appellant.
" 2.The partners of the firm are (1) Narayanjee Purushotham Sait, (2)
(3) and (4) of section 25.
I is different from the partnership which was brought about by the instrument of December 6, 1918 for the partners in the two firms were not the same.
It is of some significance to point out that the partners constituting the appellant at the moment of the transfer in 1948 also thought that in 1937 the old firm ceased to exist and its business was carried on thereafter by two independent firms, for the document of October 30, 1943 has referred to annexures C 1 and C 11 as constituting two independent partnerships and proceeded to revoke them both and provided that the parties to the instrument "have (1) 107 agreed to carry on and continue as one single partnership business the existing partnership businesses of Sait Nagjee Purushotham and Co., Bankers, Piece goods and Yarn Mer chants, Sait Nagjee Purushotham and Co., Soap and Umbrella Merchants. "
In my judgment, these appeals must be allowed anD the question answered in favour of the assessee firm but only in respect of the business in piece goods, yarn and banking which alone had paid tax under the Income tax Act of 1918.
The business of the Firm shall be carried on by Partner No. 4
C2 was executed by Nagjee, Narayanjee and Manecklal.
It was for this reason that sub section (4) of section 25 expressly mentioned that a case of succession was not to be found where there was a mere change in the constitution of the firm.
It contends that it had been carrying on a business on April 1, 1939 from before and on that business tax had been charged under the Act of 1918 and that it was succeeded by a company as owner of the business as a result of a transfer by an instrument executed on February 7, 1948.
It then moved the High Court under section 66 (2) of the Act and the High Court directed the Tribunal to refer the following question for determination by it: "Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the assessee is not entitled to relief under section 25 (4) of the Indian Income tax Act, and to what extent?"
The firm name shall be "Sait Nagjee Purushotham & Co. Bankers, Piece goods, Yarn, Soap and Umbrella merchants.
"This agreement of partnership between (1) Nagjee.
If there was a succession, then, sub section (4) was applicable.
Under section 3 of the Indian Income tax Act, 1918, the subject of the tax was not the income of the previous year of assessment, but the income of the assessment year.
There is no reference in annexure C I to the firm constituted by the instrument of December 6, 1918.
By that time, Bhagwanjee had retired and the business was in the hands of only the members of the family.
Even if it was held that on May 30, 1939, there was a succession to the business which we do not think is a correct view to take, that also would disentitle the appellant to relief under sub sec: (4) of section 25 in the years 1948 49 and 1949 50, for it should, in such an event, have claimed the relief in the year 1939 40.
Hemchand was merely taken on as a working partner.
We are not concerned with these sub sections.
Now when the business on which tax was charged under the Act of 1918 which, it is not disputed, happened in this case was discontinued in 1937 it could not have been carried on April 1, 1939.
This cannot be said to have taken place in the present case in respect of all the businesses and a fortiori in respect of the business in piece ,goods, yarn and banking.
(2) Narayanjee and Maneklal .
In this case, the claim to the benefit of sub section (4) was made by the company on the basis of a succession either on November 13, 1947 or on February 13, 1948.
The word "firm" in annexure C I refers to the partnership brought into existence by it.
Whereas the remaining partners (1) Nagjee Amersee Sait, (2) Narayanji Purushotham Sait and (3)
This is clear from the terms of the instrument which we have earlier set out.
' Both deeds provided again that the partnerships would not be dissolved by the death or retirement of a partner.
The present appeals are from the judgment of the High Court.
When the 1939 amendment was made, relief was given by sub section (4) to a person who had paid tax under the Act of 1918 when he was succeeded in his business by another person.
That was a case of a joint family business which on partition was split up between different members of the family. '
Now the first condition of the applicability of sub sec.
Partner No. 1 shall have 3 annas 8 pies in the Rupee; Partner
On May 30, 1939, two 110 deeds were executed.
The next question to consider is whether there has been a succession or a mere change in the constitution of the assessee firm in the years 1939 and 1948.
(20) All the partners hereby agree that they in their individual capacity are and shall be Partners also along with Hemchand Veerjee Sait in a Partnership business in Soaps and Umbrellas carried on in Calicut and Madras under the name and style of Sait Nagjee Purushotham and Co., Soap and Umbrella Merchants and in Bombay under the name and style of Shah Nagjee Purushotham & Co., the terms and conditions whereof are embodied in an Agreement of Partnership dated 30 5 1939 signed by all the Partners.
But, looked at from the point of view of section 25(3), the business could be said to have ceased.
" Therefore when in sub section (4) the word 'person ' is used, it is intended to include not only an individual but also a firm.
