Thereupon there was a reference to a Full Bench on the question of liability which was formulated by the learned Judges thus: "Whether the expression 'Government of the corresponding State ' used in article 295(2) of the Constitution with reference to Rajasthan properly means the Government of the United State of Rajasthan which was the only Indian State in existence at the time of the commencement of the Constitution or it also includes the Government of any of the Covenanting States which had integrated with the United State before the Constitution came into operation.
This is the basic difference between the Dalmia Dadri Cement Company case(1) and the present case, for in that case the old laws were repealed and thus repudiated in areas other than Patiala State while in the present case the old laws were continued till they were repealed or altered; and in view of that basic difference between that case and the present case we can legitimately call in aid article VI of the Covenant and similar provisions which were always made throughout this process of merger in Rajasthan and treat them as evidence from which to come to the conclusion that the new State, by continuing the old laws, without change till they were repealed or altered, recognised that it was liable in the same way as would have been the merging State if there was any liability on the merging State.
Provision was also made in the Covenant that all the assets and liabilities of the covenanting States shall be the assets and liabilities of the new State of Matsya.
In consequence this Court further held that the Covenant by which the new State of Pepsu came into existence was in its entirety an act of State and that article VI therein could not operate to confer any right on the company as against the new State, for the principle was well settled that clauses in treaties entered into by sovereigns of independent States whereunder sovereignty in territories passed from one to the other providing for the recognition by the new sovereign of the existing rights of the residents of those territories must be regarded as invested with the character of an act of State and no claim based thereon could be enforced in a court of law.
The three second appeals were dismissed by the High Court.
The suit out 'of which appeal No. 887 has arisen was filed by the respondent against the State of Rajasthan.
The respondent 's case further was that as he could not export the entire quantity of 15,000 maunds for which he had paid export duty in advance at the rate of Rs.
But this was of course subject to any law made by the new State repealing the old laws and the liabilities arising there under or even otherwise, provided the law so made was within the competence of the new State and after the Constitution came into force it did not transgress the constitutional limitations.
By May 15, 1949, the United State of Rajasthan was formed including the Matsya Union into which the former State of Dholpur had merged on March 17, 1948.
