The High Court has affirmed the finding of the authority and held that section 15 was applicable to the case, because the wages prescribed by the award did amount to wages as defined by section 2(vi) of the Act.
The terms in question need not be express and can be implied; but they must be terms which arise out of the contract of employment, and since an award made by an Industrial Tribunal cannot be said to amount to a contract of employment, the wage structure prescribed by the award cannot fall within the definition prescribed by section 2(vi).
That, in brief, is the substance of the argument raised by the appellant.
The point which we have to decide in the present appeal is whether the remuneration payable under an award was not already included in the definition of wages before the said definition was amended.
In this connection,we may incidentally refer to the decision of this Court in the South Indian Bank Ltd. vs A. R. Chacko(1), where it has been observed by this Court that the very purpose for which industrial adjudication has been given the peculiar authority and right of making new contracts between employers and workmen makes it reasonable to think that even though the period of operation of the award and the period for which it remains binding on the parties may elapse in respect of both of which special provisions have been made under sections 23 and 29 respectively the new contract would continue to govern the relations between the parties till it is replaced by another contract.
In spite of the award and the agreement, the appellant paid its employees only As. / 10 / per day and that led to the present claim made by the respondents under section 15 of the Act.
The true legal position is that when industrial disputes are decided by industrial adjudication and awards are made, the said awards supplant contractual terms in respect of matters covered by them and are substituted for them.
Appeal dismissed (1) A.I.R. 1951 Cal.
Section 2(vi) as it stood at the relevant time, provides, inter alia, that wages means all remuneration, capable of being expressed in terms of money, which would, if the terms of the ,contract of employment, express or implied, were fulfilled, be payable.
March 24, 1964.
In our opinion, the Bombay view correctly represents the true legal position in the matter.
There would be no order as to costs.
M. C. Setalvad, and R. C. Prasad, for the appellants.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated March 20, 1957, of the Patna High Court in Civil Revision
40 of 1956.
The respondent did not appear.
