The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land, it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 4(3)(viii) of the Income tax Act.
The source of the right in which a fraction of the net income of the trust is to be appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration is not in the right to receive rent or revenue of agricultural lands, but rests in the covenant in the deed to receive remuneration for management of the trust.
" It follows from the decisions of the Privy Council and the judgments of this Court cited above that if it is held in this case that the source of the allowance or pension is the arrangement arrived at in 1837.
36,396/ received by the assessee as an allowance during the previous year of the assessment year 1949 50 is revenue income liable to tax under the Indian Income tax Act, 1922?
We respectfully adopt the reasoning and conclusion of this Court in the case of State of ; 704 Uttar Pradesh vs Kunwar Sri Trivikram Narain Singh(1) and hold that the respondent, under the arrangement, had no interest in land or in the land revenue payable in respect thereof.
If the other method is adopted, tax will not be payable .
The pension was paid regularly from year to year by the Government to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs.
" The learned counsel for the respondent, Mr. A. Viswanatha Sastri urges that on its true interpretation the letter dated July 7, 1837, showed an arrangement for sharing collections.
He says that if the assessee 's predecessor had received ) 706 compensation for relinquishing his title to the lands in dispute, that would have been a capital receipt and not taxable.
J. This appeal pursuant to a certificate granted by the Allahabad High Court under section 66A(2) of the Income tax Act (hereinafter referred to as the Act) is directed against the judgment of the High Court in a reference under the Act, answering the question referred to it in the negative.
The Tribunal held that the sum of Rs.
Mr. Sastri, relying on Perrin vs Dickson(1) contends that an annuity is not always taxable as income.
Agricultural income ' is defined in section 2 of the Act as follows: "(1) "agricultural income" means (a) any rent or revenue derived from land which is used for agricultural purposes and is either assessed to land revenue in British India or subject to a local rate assessed and collected by officers of the Crown as such: .
He, therefore, asked us to disregard the word 'pension ' in the letter dated July 7, 1837, and determine the real character of the payment.
The British Government granted a sanad of Raj to Raja Chet Singh who in turn gave the Jagir of Parganas Seyedpore and Bhittery in perpetuity to Babu Ausan Singh.
