A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work (which cannot exceed 9) is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
They contended that, regard being had to the number of actual work hours, the case of shore crew at the Prince 's and Victoria Docks and the Butcher Island could not be compared with that of the crew at the Alexandra Docks or the Flotilla Crew.
The working day of an adult worker shall be so arranged that inclusive of the intervals for rest, if any, it shall not spread over more than twelve hours on any day.
As in the present case the total number of hours of work in a week is 48 (8 hours per day for 6 days) overtime is payable for that hour or part of an hour beyond the 8 hours in which the workman is either made to work or the interval is not specified.
The hours of work and the payment of overtime are, therefore, governed by the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages (Central) Rules, 1950 and the controversy in this case must be appreciated and resolved in accordance with them.
Thus the 12 hours ' shift at the Alexandra Docks was 8 hours ' of duty, 3 hours ' overtime and one hour variable recess.
(3) Nothing in this rule shall be deemed to affect the provisions of the .
For the hours of rest he is not required to pay overtime but he must specify those hours.
There is no definition of interval either in the Act or the Rules but the provisions of section 13 (2) (c) read with section 13 (3) give us an indication of what is meant by an interval of rest.
(1) Where an employee, whose minimum rate of wages is fixed under this Act by the hour, by the day or by such a longer wage period as may be prescribed, works on any day in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day, the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate fixed under this Act or under any law of the appropriate Government for the time being in force, whichever is higher.
The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
From section 13 read with Rule 24 we know that the number of hours constituting a normal working day is 9.
It is whether the fixing of a two hours ' rest and two hours ' overtime involves a breach of the two sections of the Act and the two rules quoted here ?
We shall now turn to these provisions.
He can specify the intervals of rest and spread the 8 hours or 9 hours, as the case may be, together with intervals of rest over 12 hours in a twelvehour shift.
According to their resolution the recess is fixed as near the middle of the work as possible, depending on the tides.
