(iv)Subject to rules (i) to (iii) a workman 's basic pay in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified shall be fixed in the following manner (a)A workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay of Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale as modified equal to, or next above his basic pay as on 1st January, 1959 in the scale then in force in the bank concerned (hereinafter called the Bank 's scale).
(b) and (c) of cl.
Under sub cl.
(iv) his salary has to be fixed as on January 1, 1959 at Rs.
(ii) is subject to cl.
It will be seen from the above comparison of the provisions in the two awards that the substantial provisions of the Desai award are exactly the same as the provisions of the Sastry award as modified except (i) for changes necessitated by the fact that the Desai award was being given in 1962 and (ii) the provision in the Sastry award corresponding to sub cl.
He would not be entitled to any increments under sub cls.
(ii) of the Desai award, the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1, 1962.
(i) and (ii).
(b) read with sub cl.
(iv), but this will be subject to cls.
292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision.
The workman 's basic pay as on January 1, 1959 shall not be reduced in any case.
4 A. After adjustments are made in accordance with clauses (a), (b) and (c) supra two further increments in the new scale will be added thereto for service for the two years 1951 and 1952.
We make no order as to costs in the circumstances.
(iv) of the Desai award.
(c) Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
(a), (b) and (c) of el.
" The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present ,case was this.
(ii) has to be worked out as on January 1, 1959, the two increments provided by sub cl.
His salary as on January 1, 1959 was Rs.
But as we, have held that in cl.
(iii) In the matter of adjustment, all efficiency bars, whether in the previously existing scales or in the scales provided by the Sastry award as modified should be ignored.
The thirteenth stage in the Desai award scale is Rs.
(1) Desai award For workmen who entered service of the bank before 1st January 1959 (i)
(ii) the adjusted basic pay is to be as on January 1, 1962.
C.A. 1009 dismissed.
The bank further claimed that this being the maximum permissible under cl.
It is urged on behalf of the appellant that the Desai award made certain changes and therefore need not be interpreted in the same way as was done in Prakash Chand Mehra 's case(1).
(d) cannot be permitted in view of cl.
(iv) because he was getting more than what would be his adjusted basic pay under cl.
(iv) will take effect and give two annual increments for 1960 and 1961 which are beyond the date which we have accepted as the right date for purposes of cl.
The bank actually fixed him at Rs.
C.A. 1008 allowed.
This interpretation is in accord with what was decided by this Court in Prakash Chand Mehra 's case(1), and that decision in our opinion would govern the interpretation of para.
Therefore, two increments under sub cl.
182 for that area.
(b)To the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause (a) annual increment or increment& in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
Point to point adjustment as on January 1, 1959, would give him Rs.
It is true that the Desai award said that certain changes were being made; but these changes were considered necessary having regard to the lapse of time.
(d) must always be given.
(iv) and cl.
(iv) in accordance with what we have interpreted these sub clauses as well as cls.
Appeals by special leave from the orders dated April 1, 1965 of the Central Government Labour Court, Jullundur, in cases Nos.
