To sum up, then, our conclusions may be stated thus: The discretion conferred on the Central Government by section 237(b) to order an investigation and delegated by it to the Company Law Board is administrative, that it could be validly exercised by the Chairman of the Board by an order made in pursuance of a rule enacted by the Central Government under section 642(1) read with section 10E(5), that the exercise of the power does not violate any fundamental right of the company, that the opinion to be formed under section 237(b) is subjective and that if the grounds are disclosed by the Board the Court can examine them for considering whether they are relevant.
Turning to paragraph 16 of the affidavit we find that Mr. Dutt has clearly reiterated that there was ample material before the Board on which it could and did form the opinion that there were circumstances suggesting that as stated in the order of May, 19, 1965, the business of the company was being conducted with intent to defraud creditors, members and other persons and further that the persons concerned in the management of the affairs of the company had in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
if, in the opinion of the Central Government, there are circumstances suggesting (i) that the business of the company is being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors, members or any other persons, or otherwise for a fraudulent or unlawful purpose, or in a manner oppressive of any of its members, or that the company was formed for any fraudulent or unlawful purpose; (ii) that persons concerned in the formation of the company or the management of its affairs have in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance or other misconduct towards the company or towards any of its members; or (iii) that the members of the company have not been given all the information with respect to its affairs which they might reasonably expect, including information relating to the calculation of the commission payable to a managing or other director, the managing agent, the secretaries and treasurers, or the manager, of the company.
The order of the Board was challenged on 5 grounds which are briefly as follows: (1) that the order was made mala fide; (2) that in making the order the Board had acted on material extraneous to the matters mentioned in section 237(b) of the ; (3) that the order having in fact been made at the instance of the shareholders is invalid and on a true construction of section 237 this could not be done; (4) that the order was invalid because it was made by the Chairman of the Board and not by the Board; and (5) that the provisions of section 237(b) are void as offending articles 14 and 19(1)
(a) of sub section (1) of section 637 read with sub section (1) of section 10E of the , the Central Government delegated its powers and functions to the Board under section 237(b) among others.
(i) to (iii).
(3) One of the members shall be appointed by the Central Government to be the chairman of the Company Law Board.
On this part of the case the appellant 's contention is that the Chairman of the Company Law Board Mr. R. C. Dutt made the order for investigation into the affairs of appellant No. 1 at the instance of Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari, the then Finance Minister and also because of his bias against appellant No. 2.
The formation of an opinion must, therefore, be as to whether there are circumstances suggesting the existence of one or more of the matters in sub cls.
However from the Memoranda received by the Board referred to in paragraph 5 and other examination it appeared inter alia that: (i) there had been delay, bungling and faulty planning of this project, resulting in double expenditure, for which the collaborators had put the responsibility upon the Managing Director, Petitioner No. 2, 338 (ii) Since its floatation the company has been continuously showing losses and nearly 1/3rd of its share capital has been wiped off; (iii) that the shares of the company which to start with were at a premium were being quoted on the Stock Exchange at half their fa ce value; and (iv) some eminent persons who had initially accepted seats on the Board of directors of the company had subsequently severed their connections with it due to differences with Petitioner No. 2 on account of the manner in which the affairs of the company were being conducted.
Our learned brother Shelat has dealt with this aspect of the matter fully in his judgment and as we agree with him it is not necessary to say much on the point.
Now the Chairman in his affidavit referred to two memoranda dated May 30, 1964 and July 4, 1964 presented by certain ex directors and also stated that from September 1961 complaints were being received in regard to the conduct of the affairs of the Company, and one such complaint was received from Special Police Establishment in November 1963.
Once it is conceded that the formation of an opinion by the Board is intended to be subjective and if the provision is constitutional which in our view it is the question would arise: what is that about which the Board is entitled to form an opinion?
Krishnamachari & Sons would have got the sole selling agency of the products of barium chemicals.
(b) and (c).
These were admitted by Mr. Dutt in paragraph 14 of the counter affidavit.
The Government had, therefore, power to frame the Company Law Board (Procedure) Rules, 1964 authorising the Chairman to distribute the business of the Board.
In exercise of.
He has also said that the Board was aware of the fact that the company had entered into collaboration with M/s. L. A. Mitchell Ltd.
It is not necessary to go into it.
Then he has set out the circumstances upon which his contention is based.
Mr. Setalvad said that as the appellants had made out a prima facie case of mala fides in their affidavits, and as these allegations had been denied by the respondents, the High Court was in error in refusing permission to the appellants to cross examine the persons who swore the affidavits on the side of the respondents.
" By order dated February 6, 1964 the Chairman of the Company Law Board specified the cases and classes of cases to be considered jointly by the Board and distributed the remaining business between himself and other members of the Board.
Though the order could successfully be challenged if it were made mala fide, it has not been shown to have been so made.
(1) As soon as may be after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1963, the Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute a Board to be called the Board of Company Law Admin istration to exercise and discharge such powers and functions conferred on the Central Government by or under this Act or any other law as may be delegated to it by that Government.
On June 4, 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ, direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19, 1965.
According to Mr. Setalvad, cl.
But it was not solely on the basis of this memorandum that action was taken by the Board.
appellant No.
The argument of the learned Attorney General that sub section (4A) was ?
To this Board the Government delegated its function under section 237.
Had the Chairman applied his mind to the relevant facts, he could not have formed this opinion.
The material must suggest certain inferences and not the need for "a deeper probe".
But if the circumstances pointed out are such that no inference of the kind stated in section 237(b) can at all be drawn the action would be ultra vires the Act and void.
We are not concerned with cls.
In my opinion, the distribution of the business of the Board among its members is a delegation of its authority.
Certain proposals were discussed and it was decided that the company should give notice to L. A. Mitchell Ltd. canceling the agreement with them.
The power to call for information is conferred on the Regisrar in two different ways.
The second is what are the powers of the Board in this behalf and whether they have been exercised contrary to the requirements of the Act.
On the question of mala fides, I am inclined to think that the Chairman passed the order dated May 19, 1965 independently of and without any pressure from the Minister.
1, therefore. agree with my brother Shelat that the appeal must be allowed.
In other words this is an argument that the order was made mala fide.
In paragraph 13 he has stated that without prejudice to his submissions in the earlier paragraphs he would reply to allegations contained in the various paragraphs of the writ petition.
If the facts do reasonably suggest any of these things to the Board, the power can be exercised,though another.
On December 5, 1960 M/s. T. T. K. & Co., applied for a licence for manufacture of barium chemicals.
It would then have been a question whether this Court could or should go behind the affidavit.
Section 235 deals with "Investigation of affairs of company on application by members or report by Registrar".
These words indicate that before the Central Government forms its opinion it must have before it circumstances suggesting certain inferences.
In the circumstances, therefore, we do not think that there is anything more that we need say.
The Government thought it right to take power to step in where there was reason to suspect that the Management may not have been acting in the interests of the shareholders who would not be able to take the steps against a powerful body like the Managementand to take steps for protection of such interests.
No material, however, is placed before us from which it could be reasonably inferred that had the negotiations with Kali Chemie fructified M/s.
Prima facie, a discretion conferred by a statute, on any authority is intended to be exercised by that authority, and. by no other.
Mudholkar, J.
Sub section (4A) of section 10E, which has been added by an amending Act of 1965, after the events in this case, reads: "10E. (4A).
The contention is that though the Board acted upon the memorandum submitted by four ex Directors it did not even require them to comply with the provisions of section 236.
Coming now to the affidavit of Mr. Dang I find that he merely repeats what was stated in the affidavit of the Chairman.
As a result of the notice Lord Poole visited India in April/May, 1965.
It may be said at once, that apart from that allegation, nothing has been said attributing to the Chairman any personal bias, grudge, oblique motive or ulterior purpose.
They have now come up to this Court by special leave.
The Company was registered in the year 1961 and had an authorised capital of Rs.
The matter was then placed before the Chairman who formed the opinion that there were circum stances suggesting the need for action under section 237(b).
This section is in two parts.
Since the existence of "circumstances" is a condition fundamental to the making of an opinion, the existence of the circumstances.
The other provides for the procedure of the Board.
I also think that section 237(b) is not violative of articles 19(1)(f) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.
The Board can consist of such number of persons not exceeding five as the Government thinks fit.
that some directors have resigned does not establish fraud or misconduct.
In Cook vs Ward(1), the Court held that where a drainage board constituted by an Act of Parliament was authorised by it to delegate its powers to a committee, the powers so delegated to the committee must be exercised by them acting in concert and it was not competent to them to apportion those powers amongst themselves and one of them acting, alone, pursuant to such apportionment, could not justify his acts under the statute.
(b) thereof confers, a discretion upon the Board to appoint an Inspector to investigate the affairs of a company.
In paragraph 5 it may be recalled Mr. Dutt has set out the grounds on which the writ petition deserved to be summarily 325 rejected.
The second respondent is Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari, who was at that time Minister for Finance in the Government of India.
This might have weighed with me but for the fact that the Company itself had done nothing even before action was taken, to establish itself.
As a general rule, whatever a person has power to do himself, he may do by means of an agent.
An examination of the section would show that cl.
320 A lengthy argument was addressed before us by Mr. Setalvad bearing on the question of mala fides in the course of which he referred us to certain documents.
If the information or explanation is not furnished or is unsatisfactory the Registrar can report to the Central Government for action.
Prima facie, the Board must act as a whole and cannot delegate its function to one of its members.
As we have said, the section gives the exploratory power only.
On May 30, 1964 and July 9, 1964 four of its directors submitted two memoranda alleging irregularities and even illegalities in the conduct of the company 's affairs to the Company Law Board.
The 2nd appellant did not agree.
While these negotiations were going on, representatives of M/s.
There will be no order about costs.
Now, the first of its conclusion is to the effect that the materials show that there was delay , bungling, faulty planning of the project and that this resulted in double expenditure for which the collaborators had put the responsibility upon the Managing Director, that is, appellant No. 2.
Thereafter he has set out what, according to him, are the true facts.
Bearing in mind that the maxim delegatus non potest delegare sets out what is merely a rule of construction, sub delegation can be sustained if permitted by an express provision or by necessary impli cation.
lot needed at all, does not appeal to me.
It is not sufficient to assert that the circumstances exist and give no clue to what they are because the circumstances must be such as to lead to conclusions of certain definiteness.
There is first mala fides attributed to the chairman because he is said to have acted under the behest of a Minister of Cabinet interested in another rival Company.
Lord Poole agreed that the British company would put in pound 250,000 in addition to the amount already invested by it and that production would commence from June, 1965.
According to the appellants, before entering into a collaboration agreement with M/s. L. A. Mitchell Ltd., the appellant No. 2 Balasubramanian was negotiating with a German firm named Kali Chemie A. G. of Hanover for obtaining their collaboration.
The Chairman alone could, therefore, pass the impugned order.
In fact, paragraph 16 is no more than a mechanical repetition of the words of the section.
In the case before us they appear to be relevant in the context of the matter mentioned in sub cls.
Apparently the four ex Directors were not holding 10% of the voting power of the Company.
The first ground has already been dealt with in part when I considered the malice and influence of the Minister.
if questioned, has to be proved at least prima facie.
In taking the decision Mr. Dutt acted under a rule 1964] 4 S.C.R. 99.
Appellant No. 2 who is the managing director of the company is not a citizen, but even assuming that section 237(b) imposes restrictions on his right of property or his right to carry on his occupation as managing director, those restrictions are reasonable and are imposed in the interests of the general public.
Even in such a case a court might well hold that it has been demolished by the affidavits in answer.
However, under sections 10E(5) and 642(1), the Central Government may frame rules regulating the procedure of the Board and generally to carry out the purposes of the Act.
What is said therein is that there are circumstances suggesting that the business of the appellants is being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors, members and others, and that.
Therefore, all that I have to consider is whether the action of the Chairman can be challenged as done either contrary to the provisions empowering him or beyond those provisions.
On July 28, 1961.
On August 30, 1962, the licence granted to M / section T. T. K. Chemicals Ltd. was revoked as the company had decided to surrender it.
The appellants thereafter sought to obtain a certificate of fitness for appeal to this Court; but the High Court refused to grant such a certificate.
In other words, the enumeration of the inferences which may be drawn from the circumstances, postulates the absence of a general discretion to go on a fishing expedition to find evidence.
My 331 order proposed by him but as I view the matter a little differently on some of the aspects of the case, I wish to record my reasons briefly.
As a consequence Inspectors have been appointed and searches have been made.
but it has no information of any of the other matters and/or negotiations with M/s. L. A. Mitchell Ltd., Manchester.
When ' members apply they must support their application by evidence and give security for costs of investigation.
Under sections 10E(1) and 637(1)(a), the Central Government has power to constitute a Company, Law Board and to delegate its functions to the Board.
This was followed by an enquiry by the Regional Director of the Board at Madras (Shri R. section Ramamurthi, I.A.S.) who made a report in September 1964.
The section may be read here: "10E. Constitution of Board of Company Law Administration.
None of the reports was produced.
Its object is to find out the facts. , a suspicion having been entertained that all was not well with the company.
329 of procedure prescribed in the order dated February 6, 1964.
On April 4, 1965, a meeting of the company 's directors was held in New Delhi which was attended by one Kriegstein, a representative of Kali Chemie and also by the General Manager of M/s. T. T. K. & Co.
This paragraph is in answer to paragraph 21 of the writ petition.
" The question thus arises what has the Chairman placed before the Court to indicate that his action was within the four corners of his own powers?
They disputed the validity of all the other grounds raised by the petitioners.
1 crore divided into 1,00,000 shares of Rs. 100 each.
The last circumstance does not also bear upon the subject of fraud and acts done with intend to defraud.
To say that the opinion to be formed must be as to the necessity of making an investigation would be making a clear departure from the language in which section 237(b) is couched.
In our opinion, therefore, the argument of Mr. Setalvad about the circumstances being extraneous cannot be accepted.
Without prejudice to its powers under section 235, the Central Government (a) (b) may do so (i.e. appoint one or more competent persons as inspectors to investigate etc.)
The circumstances mentioned show mismanagement and inefficiency which is not the same thing as fraud or misconduct.
It is said that the plaint was producing at that time only 25 per cent of its installed capacity but that according to the assurance given by Lord Poole it would yield full production by April, 1966.
I shall now consider the question of mala fides.
Both were considered by the Licensing Committee.
He then started negotiations with Kali Cliemle of Hannover, West Germany to collaborate with him in setting up a plant.
As a general rule, "if the, statute directs that certain acts shall be done in a specified manner or by certain persons, their performance in any other manner than that specified or by any other person than one of those name is impliedly prohibited. "
If the decision arrived at by the Chairman was an independent one it cannot be said to have been rendered mala fide because it was later approved by Mr. Krishnamachari whose sons undoubtedly constitute the partnership firm of M/s. T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons.
This shows that rivalry between two manufacturing concerns was not the prime 335 motive.
In this state of pleadings it would not be right to construe the affidavit of Mr. Dutt to mean that the only conclusions emerging from the material before the Board are those that are set out in paragraph 14 of his affidavit.
It reads: "237.
Nor was there any indication in the affidavit what their drift was.
Such an enactment has been framed in relation to the Tribunal constituted under section 10B and has now been framed under section 10E also.
its discretion the High Court has re 321 fused permission to cross examine them.
Where, as here, what is sub delegated is an administrative power and control over its exercise is retained by the nominee of Parliament, that is, here the Central Government, the power to make a delegation may be inferred.
These are two very different things.
There is no doubt that few share holders have the means or ability to act against the Management.
which they might reasonably expect, including information relating to the calculation of the commission payable to a managing or other director, the managing agent, the secretaries and treasurers, or the manager of the company.
This broad rule is limited by the operation of the principle that a delegated authority cannot be redelegate, delegates non protest delegate.
There was not much hope of profits as a sole selling agent or even as a partner.
An action, not based on circumstances suggesting an inference of the enumerated kind will not be valid.
BACHAWAT and SHELAT JJ. delivered separate judgments allowing the Appeal.
I leave that question to be decided in another case where it arises.
He has specifically denied that it was issued at the instance of the second respondent.
See Crawford on statutory Construction, 1940 Edn., article 195, p. 335:
We were, however, not impressed by this argument.
illegality or action or actions with intent to defraud, as contemplated by the section.
The Committee rejected the application of M/s. T. T. K. & Co., but advised them to apply again after six months.
Thereafter a permit for importing the requisite machinery was granted to the Company.
These grounds limit the jurisdiction of the Central Govern ment.
that organ itself.
I cannot accept this submission.
