The learned counsel for the appellant contends before us (1) that r. 5 of the Fees Rules was intraviress (2) that the Standing Committee had no jurisdiction to decide the appeal on merits as the appeal to the Panchayat Samiti was barred by limitation; (3) that the octroi duty has been levied in accordance with law; (4) that, at any rate, the levy was good after the octroi limits were fixed on January 14, 1964; (5) that the approval of the octroi limits on January 14, 1964, relates back to April 1, 1963; and (6) that the tea was imported into the Panchayat limits for consumption, use or sale.
Rule 5 follows imme diately rr.3 and 4 and is headed "Appeal against levy of any tax or fee", and the period of sixty days of limitation commences from the date of the publication of the notice under r.4, i.e., the notice following the decision of a Panchayat to levy any tax or fee.
But the learned counsel for the Company, Mr. Ashok Sen, argues that this interpretation is not correct because para 2 of r.4 says that the tax shall accordingly be levied from the date which shall be specified in the notice, and he says that if the octroi limits had not been approved of by the time the resolution is passed, how could the tax be levied from the date specified in the notice.
We are unable to allow him to raise this point at this stage.
The case is remanded to the High Court to deal with the question whether the Company imported tea for the purpose of consumption, use or sale within the octroi limits of the Panchayat.
" On March 17, 1963, resolution No. 3 was passed fixing octroi limits and number of octroi nakas and their places.
It shall be competent to a panchayat to levy all or any of the following taxes and, fees at such rates as may be decided by it (but subject to the minimum and maximum rates which may be fixed by the State Government) and in such manner and subject to such exemptions as may be prescribed, namely: . . . . . . . . .
Procedure for levying tax or fee.
" In exercise of the powers under s.176 of the Act, the State Government made the rules called the Maharashtra Village Panchayat Taxes and Fees Rules, 1960.
He says that this point was raised before the High Court but it has not been 221 A dealt with by it.
It only deals with two items; (1) selection of the tax and the rate at which it is to be levied.
Before we deal with these points it is necessary to set out the relevant statutory provisions.
But r.4 has to be read alongwith r.21, and if so read, it would mean that before the octroi duty can start being levied, r.21 must be complied with.
" The Company thereupon filed an appeal before the Standing Committee, Zila Parishad, Nagpur hereinafter, referred to as the Standing Committee on October 22, 1963.
It is true that the opening sentence makes a reference to an appeal under sub section (5) of section 124, and this opening sentence would cover all II appeals under sub section (5) of section 124, but in the context and setting, the heading of r. 5 brings out the scope of the rule.
