Obviously relying on the observation of this Court that after a judicial officer is posted to the cadre, it is for the High Court to effect his transfers, the court below has come to the conclusion that as the posts of the law secretary, deputy law secretary and superintendent and legal remembrancer are included in the cadre, the High Court has the power to fill those posts by transfer of judicial officers.
Shri K.K. Bose and Shri B.K.
(1) ; (2) ; 161 namely, whether the power to transfer District Judges is included in the 'control ' exercisable by the High Court over District Courts under article 235, or in the power of 'appointment of persons to be and the posting and promotion, of district judges ' which is to be exercised by the Governor under article 233, albeit in consultation with the High Court.
district and sessions judge.
It is not the case of the parties that he was placed at the disposal of the government for any definite period.
Shri Sarjoo Prasad learned counsel for the High Court of Orissa at the very commencement of his arguments conceded that the order of the High Court holding that those officers had no authority to hold the posts in question is unsustainable.
Patro, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri P.C. Dey had no authority to act as law secretary, superintendent and legal remembrancer and member sales tax tribunal, respectively, on and after October 10, 1966, and (2) commanding the State of Orissa, the Chief Secretary to the government of Orissa, the Home Secretary to the government of Orissa, Shri P.C. Dey,
The other is that a case is only an authority for what it actually decides.
But we were told that in view of the decisions of this Court in State of West Bengal vs Nripendra Nath Bagchi(1) and State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad(2) the High Court must be held to have that right as those posts are included in the cadre of superior judicial service.
Neither the government nor the High Court could have posted any officer as the Registrar of the High Court as that post can be filled only by 160 the Chief Justice.
Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated ' March 6, 1967 of the Orissa High Court in O.J.C. Nos.
Patro had not the necessary qualifications to hold the posts they were holding.
judges, was posted as superintendent and legal remembrancer in March 1962
The cadre with which we are concerned in this case consists of three parts i.e., (1) presiding officers of district courts, (2) the Registrar of the High Court and (3) the judicial officers working in the secretariat.
If there is no such agreement it is open to the government to send him back to his parent department at any time it pleases.
As mentioned earlier, member, sales tax tribunal, was an ex cadre post.
The rule laid down in that decision is of no assistance in determining the question as to whether the High Court has power to fill up some of the posts in the secretariat.
district judges as the case may be, after they had held those posts for three years or more.
627 of 1967).
It appears that for some time past there were differences between the High Court and the government about the posting of some of the judicial officers.
Bose and Shri Patro to implement the transfers ordered by the High Court on October 10, 1966.
R.K.P.S. Appeals allowed in part.
But it was beyond the powers of the High Court to post Shri K.B. Panda as the law secretary, Shri T. Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri P.K. Mohanti as the deputy law secretary.
If only there is mutual understanding and appreciation of the difficulties of the one by the other, there will be harmony.
In Ranga Mahammad 's case(2), the point that arose for decision was as to who was the authority to transfer a district judge.
In view of article 229 of the Constitution.
The High Court was anxious that a judicial officer occupying one of the administrative posts enumerated above, should not, in the interest of judicial work, continue in that post for an unduly long time.
the State government or the High Court.
Those posts are similar to.
In that cadre, no officer holding any post under the government was included.
As seen earlier, the cadre of the superior judicial service (senior branch) consisted of not only the posts of district and sessions judges and addl.
The High Court overruled the prayer made on behalf of the government to stay the operation of its decision till necessary orders were obtained from this Court.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues, with personal information, deal with the matter, than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
It was not the case of the contesting respondents that Shri P.C. Dey,
Hence that part of the High Court 's order is unassailable.
