Harries C.J. who delivered the leading judgment, which Das and Banerjee JJ. concurred, applied the test of what may be called "reasonable classification" and held that, although the need for a speedier trial than what is possible under the procedure prescribed 291 by the Code of Criminal Procedure might form the basis of a reasonable classification and section 5 (1) could not be regarded as discriminatory in so far as it authorises the State Government to direct that certain offences or classes of offences or classes of cases should be tried by a special court, the provision was discriminatory and violative of article 14 of the Constitution in so far as it purported to vest in the State Government an absolute and arbitrary power to refer to a special court for trial "any cases ", which must include an individual case, "whether the duration of such a case is likely to be long or not ".
Some of my learned colleagues have examined the provi sions of the Act and shown that of the two procedures one laid down in the Act and the other in the Code the latter affords greater facilities to the accused for the purpose of defending himself than the former; and once it is estab lished that one procedure is less advantageous to the ac cused than the other, any person tried by a Special Court constituted under the Act, who but for the Act would have been entitled to be tried according to the more elaborate procedure of the Code, may legitimately enquire: Why is this discrimination being made against me and why should I be tried according to a procedure which has not the same advantages as the normal procedure and which even carries with it the possibility of one 's being prejudiced in one 's defence ?
Section 5 (1) of the Act runs as follows": " A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases, as the State Government may, by general or special order in writing, direct".
The short question that arises for consideration in these cases is whether the whole, or any portion of the West Bengal Special Courts Act, X of 1950, is invalid as being opposed to equality before the law and the equal protection of the laws guaran teed under article 14 of the Constitution of India.
(2) ; 293 offences as there can, of course, be no trial of offences in the abstract) and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature; for, a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion, which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
It is urged by the learned AttorneyGeneral that this selection of cases must also be made in the light of the object of the Act as expressed in its preamble, that is to say, the State government can only select those cases which, in their view, require speedier trial.
A careful perusal of this decision will make it quite clear that the Court upheld the validity of the statute impugned in that case, not on the ground that the inequality was of minor importance but, on the ground that the classification of establishments according to the number of workmen employed therein was based on an intelli gible distinction having a rational relation to the subject matter of the legislation in question.
Bose J. We are concerned here with article 14 of the Constitution and in particular with the words "equality before the law" and "equal protection of the law.
While reasonable classification is permissible, such classification must be based upon some real and substantial distinction bearing a reasonable and just relation to the object sought to be attained, and the classification cannot be made arbitrarily and without any substantial basis."
Agent for the appellant in Case
The provision for the speedier trial of certain offences is, therefore, the object of the Act.
but this is not the case here.
Preliminary inquiry before committal to the sessions, trial by jury or with the aid of assessors, the right of a de novo trial on transfer of a case from one Court to another, have been taken away from the accused who are to be tried by a Special Court; even graver is section 13, which provides that a person may be convicted of an offence disclosed by the evidence as having been committed by him, even though he was not charged with it and it happens to be a more serious offence.
One is that there was no discrimination at all in the exercise of the power.
This is an appeal by the State of West Bengal from a judgment of a Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta quashing the conviction of the respondent by the Special Court established under sec tion 3 of the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance, 1949, (Ordinance No. 3 of 1949) which was replaced in March, 1950, by the West Bengal Special Courts Act, 1950, (West Bengal Act X of 1950) (hereinafter referred to as "the Act").
If a law deals equally with members of a welldefined class, it is not obnoxious and it is not open to the charge of denial of equal protection on the ground that it has no application to other persons.
What is said is, that the preamble is to be read as a part of section 5(1) and the proper interpretation to be put upon the sub section
That the Act has prescribed a procedure of trial which is materially different from that laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot be disputed.
It is designed to prevent any person or class of persons for being singled out as a special subject for discriminatory and hostile legislation.
It was held by the Supreme Court that the equal protection clause was not violated by this provision.
The principle of equality does not mean that every law must have universal application for all 351 persons who are not by nature, attainment or circumstances in the same position, and the varying needs of different classes of persons often require separate treatment.
, Chiranjit Lal Chowdhury vs The Union of India and Others (1) and The State of Bombay and Another vs F.N. Balsara C), and the principles laid down in those decisions have to be kept in view in deciding the present case.
" Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
It is not stated that it is only when speedier trial is necessary that the discretion should be exercised.
Discrimination may not appear in the statute itself but may be evident in the administration of the law.
I have already stated that this part of the sub section contemplates a process of classification of "of fences", "classes of offences" and "classes of cases".
The article lays down that "the State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.
The State Government may even arbitrarily determine the classes of cases to be tried by the Special Court and if it does so its action will be well within its powers conferred by the Act.
His first line of argument is that quite apart from the question of classification there has been no infringement of article 14 of the Constitution in the present case.
I have but one answer to that.
In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
The notifications simply direct certain "cases" to be tried by the Special Court and are obviously issued under that part of section 5(1) which authorises the State government to direct "cases" to be tried by the Special Court.
The only answer for withholding from such persons the pro tection of article 14 that could reasonably be given to these inquiries would be that "Of all other accused persons they are a class by themselves and there is a reasonable 315 difference between them and those other persons who may have committed similar offences.
Even if this difference in the circum stances of the two alleged offenders can be made the basis of a classification, there is no nexus between this differ ence and the object of the Act, for, in the absence of any special circumstances, there is no apparent reason why the offence of theft in a dwelling house by a stranger should require a speedier trial any more than the offence of theft by a servant should do.
Thus, we have before us an enactment which does not make any reasonable classification and which confers on the executive an uncontrolled and unguided power of discrimination.
It is against this decision that these two appeals have been taken to this court by the State of West Bengal.
"It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification"(1).
(Italics mine).
In my opinion, the true position is as follows : As a general rule, if the Act is fair and good, the public authority who has to administer it will be protected.
What, after all, is classification?
That is so; yet to carry that presumption to the extent of always holding that there must be some undisclosed intention or reason for subjecting certain individuals to a hostile and discriminatory legislation is to make the pro tection clause of article 14, in the words of an American decision, a mere rope of sand, in no manner restraining State action.
The High Court by a Full Bench consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges quashed the conviction and directed the trial of the respondent and the other accused persons according to law.
It is not enough that justice should be done.
The result is that the appeals fail and are dismissed.
That a judicial discretion has to be exercised on the basis of the facts of each case in the matter of granting the application for a struck jury does not really involve discrimination.
and it is in these terms : "No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law".
