The High Court held : "There was no reasonable ground for the Panchas to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat, nor is there any thing in the order sheet to show that the Panchas did not believe the contents of the application, and affidavit of Mahabir.
that it has not been sworn to before any person authorised to administer oaths.
The learned counsel for the appellants, Mr. Chari, says that no contempt of court has been established because a Court is entitled not to act on an application which is not accompanied by an affidavit properly sworn to or a certified copy of the order He urges that the Nyaya Panchayats exercised judicial powers and, even if the Panchas erred in not staying proceedings, before finding them guilty of contempt of court it should be definitely proved that the order was passed deliberately to by pass the order of the High Court.
A document purporting to be an affidavit was also attached, in which it was stated "I make oath and say that in the above case I have filed a writ petition in the High Court, that it has been admitted, and that proceedings in the case have been stayed by the High Court.
On December 13, 1963, a notice was issued to the five members of the Panchayat to assemble on December 25, 1963, and hear the case.
We had also told him to get the affidavit verified before some Tehsil authority.
" Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad, pairokar of Mahabir, Burma Prasad, the Sarpanch, and Mahabir, and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
On December 20, 1963, Mahabir moved an application under article 227 of the Constitution challenging the order of the S.D.M., dated November 28, 1963, and on the same day the High Court admitted the application and stayed further proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
The complainant and the accused are present.
It seems to us that it is not proved on the evidence here that any such application was made before the Nyaya Panchayat.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri, J. This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the Allahabad High Court adjudging the five appellants guilty of contempt of court and sentencing each of them to pay a fine of Rs.
The order sheet reads thus : "Put up today the 25th December, 1963.
J. P. Goyal, V. C. Prasar and section P. Singh for respondent No. 2.
He prayed that the Panchayat Adalat be directed to postpone proceedings pending the receipt of the stay order.
iminal Appeal No.112 of 1965.
