" On the basis of this finding of fact, the Tribunal held that, if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which, in its opinion, would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case, then, a revision was really necessary.
The profit bonus that is paid is three months ' basic wage and does not take into account the dearness allowance and the production bonus elements of the total wage.
It is to be noted that there is no mention in the award of the Tribunal that the Company at any stage put forward the case that the Collieries, the Steel Plant, the Cement Factory, and the Aluminjure Company were concerns which were not comparable with the Company.
The only 'other point argued before us in respect of wages by learned counsel was that casual workers should also be paid minimum wages on the same basis as the permanent workers for whom the minimum wage was fixed by the Tribunal which is being varied by us by increasing it to a total wage packet of Rs.
Having come to this view, it is clear that, to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co.(1), the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
The award had to cover the year 1963 64 also and at least for that year the accounts could not possibly have been completed, as that year was still running when the award was given by the Tribunal on the 11 th January, 1964.
in the paper industry in this.
The claim was, in fact, based on the circumstances that, according to the workmen, the bonus in their case was being calculated as equivalent to three months ' basic wages, while, the case of some clerical staff, the calculation was made on the basis of their consolidated wages consisting of basic wages and dearness allowance.
Since, in this appeal, the principal dispute related to the fixation of minimum wage of the workmen and we are allowing the appeal of the workmen in that respect, we direct that the workmen will be entitled to their costs of this appeal from the Company.
Though, therefore, in a case where a particular concern is already paying the highest wages in its own line of business, the industrial courts would be justified in looking at wages paid in that region in other lines of business, it should take care to see that the concerns from other lines of business taken into account are such as are as nearly similar as possible, to the line of business carried on by the concern before it.
On the face of it, at the time of the reference, there could be no question of applying the Full Bench Formula for calculation of surplus, because there were no completed accounts for the two years 1962 63 and 1963 64.
The Tribunal, in its award, held that the minimum wage in so far as it consists of basic wage and dearness allowance,, should be fixed at Rs.
In all these circumstances, we think that the revised wages should take effect from 13th December, 1962.
Learned counsel had to admit that no specific plea was taken by the Company in this behalf and at least no evidence at all was led to show that these concerns are not comparable with the Company.
It is for this figure of Rs.
11 p.to. payable as production bonus.
Consequently, we are unable to hold that the Tribunal has committed any error and that, in this respect, any interference by us is called for.
An industrial dispute between these workmen and the management of Orient Paper Mills Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "the Company") was referred by the State Government under section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
in the same region.
Comparing with them, there is justification for fixing the total wage packet of the workmen in the Company 'at Rs. 95 which would include production bonus.
12 allowed by the Tribunal.
The only other dispute raised in this appeal related to the bonus for the year 1962 63.
On these facts, the Tribunal held that it would not be proper to compare the wage structure for these Paper Mills with that of the Company.
It appears to us that an Industrial Tribunal has the discretion, in appropriate cases, of making a direction linking the dearness allowance element of a wage to the Price Index; but, at the same time, the Tribunal is entitled to choose the alternative course of fixing the wage at the prevailing Price Index and leaving the labour to raise a fresh demand and, if necessary, a fresh industrial dispute for further rise in wages, in case there is marked variation in the Price Index and the wage fixed in the award becomes out dated.
In this connection, we may take notice of the fact that, in the written statement of the workmen, the minimum wages prevailing in these concerns were (1) [1963] Supp.
It is clear that, in the Aluminium Factory, the number of workmen, who have to be paid production bonus is very small and almost insignificant as compared with the number in the Company '
Finally, it was argued that other amenities being provided by the Company should also be taken into account when fixing the minimum wage.
It appears that the Tribunal did not accept this demand primarily on the ground that the distinction between casual workers and ' the permanent workers was recognised by both the parties in the agreement of 1959.
The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co. Limited.
There is some clerical staff which does not get any dearness allowance at all and it is only in those cases.
They are Titaghur Paper Mill No. 3 situated at Chaudwar, and the J.K. Paper Mills at Rayagada.
95 will consist of Rs.
The demand made by the workmen was for bonus equivalent to six months ' wages, and the argument was that, if the Tribunal had worked out the surplus available on the correct basis, that surplus would have certainly justified grant of profit bonus at the rate of six months ' wages.
the view that there were other industries in the region in which minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the Company, but failed to fix the minimum wages in the award in accordance with the minimum wages being paid in those industries.
not think that such a consideration should be taken.
