There will be a further provision in the decree that the liability arising out of the declaration that the appellant is in Government service is the liability of the State of Gujarat and that the liability for the payment of the arrears of pay is the liability of the State of Maharashtra".
(1) Where, before the appointed day, the State of Bombay has made any contract in the exercise of its executive power for any purposes of the State, that contract shall be deemed to have been made in the exercise of the executive power, ( a) if such purposes are, as from that day, exclusively purposes of either the State of Maharashtra or the State of Gujarat, of that State; and (b) in any other case, of the State of Maharashtra; and all rights and liabilities which have accrued, or may accrue, under any such contract shall, to the extent to which they would have been rights or liabilities of the State of Bombay, be rights or liabilities of the State of Maharashtra or the State of Gujarat, as the case may be; Provided that in any such case as is referred to in clause (b), the initial allocation of 'rights and liabilities made by this sub section shall be subject to such financial adjustment as may be agreed upon between the State (1) ; ,728.
Moreover, as pointed out by the High Court, the Inspector General of Prisons had the report before him and the tentative conclusions arrived at by the Enquiry Officer were bound to influence him, and in depriving the plaintiff of a copy of the report he was handicapped is not knowing what material was influencing the Inspector General of Prisons.
" It is true that Lord Goddard, C.J., in Inland Revenue Commissioners vs Hambrook(1) observed : "If I may be bold enough to express a conclusion on a matter on which the Judicial Committee hesitated in Reilly vs R (2) , it is that an established civil servant is appointed to an office and is a public officer, remune rated by moneys provided by Parliament, so that his employment depends not on a contract with the Crown but on appointment by the Crown, though there may be as indicated in Reilly vs R. (2) exceptional cases, as for instance an engagement for a definite period where there is a contractual element in or collateral to his employment."
The High Court held that the failure on the part of the competent authority to provide the plaintiff with a copy of the report of the Enquiry Officer amounted to denial of reasonable opportunity contemplated by article 311(2) of the Constitution.
R.K.P.S. Appeal dismissed.
The plaintiff filed a written statement on September 4, 1954, and an enquiry was held by Mr. Gangopadhyay.
It seems to us, however, that some elements of relationship between a public servant and Government are based on contract within the meaning of section 60 of the Bombay Reorganisation Act, 1960.
This order was amended on February 9, 1955, in which it was stated that "the aforesaid order should be read so as to show that the plaintiff was dismissed from service on account of charge of accepting, illegal gratification from prisoner Ratilal Jivan having been conclusively proved against him in the departmental inquiries conducted against him by the Government".
On March 25, 1954, he was suspended, and at that time he was acting as Accountant at Rajkot Central Jail.
(4) (5) (May 29, We are here concerned with a choice between section 60 and section 61, which lay down two broad categories.
The plaintiff appeared before that officer and cross examined witnesses.
Charges framed against you under this office No.
The plaintiff also prayed for a decree for Rs.
