Section 151 (2) of the Act reads "No notice shall be issued under Section 148 after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless the Commissioner is satisfied on the reasons recorded by the Income tax Officer that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice."
Income tax Officer, A Ward, Muzaffarpur.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner, it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee 's omission to disclose fully and truly all material ' facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question, income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year; nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession, had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
(b) of section 147.
The material that he had before him for issuing notice under section 148 is not mentioned in the report.
Further his report mentions : "Hence proper investigation regarding these loans is necessary
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 17, 1967 of the Patna High Court in C.W.J.C.
Name and address of the assessee M/S. Chugamal Rajpal, Muzaffarpur.
Sd/ section P. Chaliha, 30 4 66.
All that he says is that from those communications "it appears that these persons (alleged creditors) are name lenders and the transactions are bogus".
" In his report the Income tax Officer does not set out any reason for coming to the conclusion that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 151(2) of the Act, we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
The income assessable relevant to the assessment year 1960 61 of in respect of which you are assessable for the said assessment year.
Whether it is a new case or one in which re assessment (or recomputation) has to be made Re assessment 5.
When the appeal was taken up for hearing on the 18th January 1971, only the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner and the order of the Commissioner was produced.
A/P/ Misc.(5)D.I./63 64/5623 dated 13 8 65, forwarded to this office under C.I.T. Bihar and Orissa, Patna 's letter
Seth Bhagwan Singh Sricharan.
952 of 1966.
The assessee also produced before him a statement showing various creditors from whom it had borrowed on Hundis during the accounting year in question.
G.C. Appeal allowed.
Therefore he could not have issued a notice under section 148.
The assessee is having construction contracts under the Railways as well as the Government.
No. 303 C. 1.1.
