Before the High Court, the contention of the Federation was that the premises in which the registered office of the Federation is located is not a "commercial establishment" within the meaning of section 2(5) of the Act which, in consequence had no application.
352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to "work in connection with, or incidental or ancillary" to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of "commercial establishment".
It came up for consideration before this Court in Management of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry vs Their workman, Shri R. K. Mittal.(1) After considering its Memorandum of Association, Articles of Association and other material, which was more or less the same, as in the present case, it was held by this Court that the activity of this Federation is in the nature of a business or trade.
These activities were business activities and material services rendered to businessmen, traders and industrialists who are members of the constituents of the Federation.
They read "Commercial establishment" means any premises wherein any trade, business or profession or any work in connection with, or incidental or ancillary thereto is carried on and includes a society registered under the , and charitable or other trust, whether registered or not, which carries on any business, trade or profession or work in connection with or incidental or ancillary thereto, ' journalistic and printing establishments, quarries and mines not governed by the , educational or other Institutions run for private gain and premises in which business of banking, insurance, stocks and shares, brokerage or produce exchange is, carried on, but does not include a shop or a factory registered under the , or theaters, cinemas, restaurants, eating houses residential hotels, clubs or other places of public amusement or entertainment. "
Whether the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, New Delhi (Respondent 1) is a "commercial establishment" within the meaning of s.2(5) of the Delhi Shops ,and Establishments Act, 1954 (for short the Act) is the sale question that falls for determination in this appeal by certificate directed against the judgment dated February 8, 1967 of the High Court of Delhi.
It was condended that the activity of the Association was not "a business or trade" because by the Memorandum of Associ (1) 357 ation all the property and income of the association were applicable solely to the promotion of the above objects, and no part thereof could be paid as dividend or otherwise, to any member.
" It will be seen that while the definition of "establishment" includes, a 'shop ' and 'commercial establishment, the definitions of 'shop ' and commercial establishment ' are mutually exclusive.
It is pointed out that it was wrongly assumed in Mittal 's case (supra) that the Federation, was systematically assisting not only its members but also other business men and industrialists even if they were not its members.
(,) Mr. Pai further maintains that the ratio in R. K. Mittal 's case (supra) is not applicable to the instant case because the definition of " 'industry" in section 2(j) of the is far wider than that of "commercial establishment" in section 2(5) of the Act.
Mr. Pai, learned Counsel for the Federation has firstly raised a preliminary objection that before the High Court, at no stage, it was urged on behalf of the Appellants that the activity of the Federation carried on in the premises was a business or trade.
