We are of the view that devolution of the interest in the subject matter of the suit took place when Shiam Dass was elected as mahant of the Dera after the death of Som Dass.
The suit was filed on the basis that the appellant as the lawfully appointed mahant was entitled to manage the properties of the Dera at Landeke, that the defendant was unlawfully claiming to be the mahant of the Dera and entitled to manage the properties of the Dera, and that the appellant was entitled to be in possession of the properties.
Against that decree, an appeal was preferred by the appellant to the High Court.
When a suit is brought by or against a person in a representative capacity and there is a devolution of the interest of the representative, the rule that has to be applied is Order 22, rule 10 and not rule 3 or 4, whether the devolution takes place as a consequence of death or for any other reason.
The High Court found no substance in the plea that the appellant had no knowledge about the date of the death of Som Dass and held that the appeal had abated and that there was no ground for setting aside the abatement.
While the appeal was pending in the High Court, Som Dass, the defendant, died on 13 10 1970.
Som Dass contended that he was lawfully appointed as mahant of the Dera.
" This rule is based on the principle that trial of a suit cannot be brought to an end merely because the interest of a party in the subject matter of the suit has devolved upon another during the pendency of the suit but that suit may be continued against the person acquiring the interest with the leave of the Court.
The suit against Som Dass was not in his personal capacity but in his capacity as de facto mahant.
No application was made by the appellant to bring on record his legal representatives within the period prescribed.
The Court said (at p. 384): "Such an application is obviously not an application under O. 22, R. 3 Civil Procedure Code.
We see no force in this argument.
The High Court referred the question to the trial Court for enquiry and decision.
Order 22, rule 10 reads: "R. 10(1)
V.P.S. Appeal allowed.
He never set up any claim which was adverse to the Dera or its properties.
Kapil Sibbal and D. Probir Mitra, for respondents.
From the Judgment and Order dated 4 4 1973 of the Punjab and Haryana High Court at Chandigarh in R.S.A. No. 1482 of 1961.
In Thirumalai vs Arunachella (2) the Court held that a succeeding trustee of a trustee who filed a suit and thereafter died during its pendency was not legal representative of the predecessor in office.
In such a case the successor to the head of the mutt or to the manager of the temple may be substituted as a party under this rule.
488 N. N. Goswamy and Arvind Minocha, for the appellant.
Civil Appeal No. 159 of 1974.
An application was made on 1 2 1971 by the appellant stating that Som Dass died on 26 11 1970 leaving behind him Shiam Dass as his Chela and for impleading him.
We allow the appeal but, in the circumstances, make no order as to costs.
