When the origin of an endowment is obscure and no direct oral evidence is available, the Court will have to resolve the controversy about the character of the trust on documentary evidence, if any, the object and purpose for which the trust was created, the consistent manner in which the property has been dealt with or managed by those in charge, the manner in which the property has long been used by the public, the contribution of the public, to all intents and purposes, as a matter of right without the least interference or restriction from the temple authorities, to foster maintenance of the worship the accretion to the trust property by way of grants from the state of gifts from outsiders inconsistent with the private nature of the trust, the nature of devolution of the property, are all important elements in determination of the question whether a property is a private or a public religious endowment.
It is clear that the beneficiaries of the deeds are the deity and the Sansthan and the gifts were made with the object of maintenance of the worship of the deity for the benefit of the Hindu public as a whole.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
We cannot agree that the High Court was not right in giving due importance to the admission of the constituted attorney Ramkrishna Deshpande that they "cannot prevent people from going to the temple as the temple is meant for the Darshan by the public".
* * * * "That ownership is of your own.
Distinguishing the decision of the Privy Council in Bahu Bhagwan Din vs Gir Har Saroon on the ground that the properties in that case were granted not in favour of an idol or temple but in favour of one Daryao Gir who was maintaining a temple and to his heirs in perpetuity, this Court further held in the above decision: "But, in the present case, the endowment was in favour of the idol itself, and the point for decision is whether it 527 was private or public endowment.
Your bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
The High Court by its order of 19/20th December, 1962, set aside the order of the District Judge and held the Sansthan to be a public trust under the Act and restored the order of the Charity Commissioner.
This property goes from Guru to his Shishya.
Again, in the gift deed exhibit 39 the donee is described as "Shri Rukhmini Pandurang Sansthan, Sansthan Amalner Sakharam Maharaj at present Vasudev Buwa Guru Bal 525 krishna Maharaj".
This is a document which was relied upon both by the District Judge as well as by the High Court.
Are the members of the public entitled to an entry in the temple ?
His only contention is that it is a private religious endowment and not a public one.
The Bhajans at Pandharpur performed by Maharaj are attended by the public".
He submits that there is no evidence of long user of this temple by 521 the public as a matter of right.
The Sanad being an ancient Royal grant is a very important piece of evidence to show that although Sakharam Maharaj, the founder of the temple, had already been succeeded by Guru Govindbuwa and the latter by Balkrishnabuwa, the land had been held in the year 1860 61 in the name of the Devasthan.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
As stated above we are unable to hold that recitals in these documents taken as a whole can reasonably lead to the conclusion that the Sansthan is a private property.
The deity of his worship was Shri Vithal Rukhamai.
