Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fiction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mistakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death.
Khandappa would have therefore got a 1/4th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and, his sons Two things are thus clears : One, that in a partition of the coparcenary property Khandappa would have obtained a 1/4th share and 767 two, that the share of the plaintiff in the 1/4th share is 1/6th, that is to say, 1/24th.
By a judgment dated March 19, 1975 a Division Bench of the High Court dismissed defendant 1 's appeal and allowed the plaintiff 's cross objections by holding that the suit properties belonged to the joint family, that there was no prior partition and that the plaintiff is entitled to a 7/24th share.
In the instant case the plaintiff 's suit, based as it is on the provisions of section 6, is essentially a claim to obtain a share in the interest which her husband had at the time of his death in the coparcenary property.
Explanation 2.
4)1 (Deft. 5)
It was held in that case that the fiction that the failure to send an estimate of tax on income under section 18A(3) is to be deemed to be a failure to send a return, necessarily involves the fiction that a notice had been issued to the assessee under section 22 and that he had failed to comply with it.
By the application of the normal rule prescribed by that section, Khandappa 's interest in the coparcenary property would devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court 's judgment by special leave.
In other words, the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property, one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
The deceased Khandappa died leaving behind him two sons, three daughters and a widow.
That, in short, is the case of defendant 1.
We are happy to find that the view which we have taken above has also been taken by the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji (supra) in which Patel, J., very fairly, pronounced his own earlier judgment to the contrary in Shiramabai Bhimgonda vs Kalgonda (supra) as incorrect.
These latter assumptions in regard to the issuance of the notice under section 22 and its non compliance bad to be, made for the purpose of giving due and full effect to the fiction created by section 18A(9)
Though the plaintiff, not being a coparcener, was not entitled to demand partition yet, if a partition were to take place between her husband and his two sons, she would be entitled to receive a share equal to that of a son.
1 S.C.R. 394 (2) 768 incidents which, if the putative state of affairs had in fact existed, must inevitably have flowed from or accompanied it; and if the statute says that you must imagine a certain state of affairs, it cannot be interpreted to mean that having done so, you must cause or permit your imagination to boggle when it comes to the inevitable corollaries of that state of affairs.
" The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17, 1956, Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act, to wit in 1960, and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property, the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
Adding 1/4th and 1/24th, the plaintiff claims a 7/24th share in the joint family properties.
The learned trial Judge, relying upon the decision in Shiramabai which was later overruled by the Bombay High Court, accepted the former contention while the High Court accepted the latter.
524 of 1966 from original decree.
There was, therefore, no question of a fresh partition.
The son, daughter and a widow are mentioned as heirs in class I of the Schedule and therefore, by reason of the provisions of section 8(a) read with the 1st clause of section 9, they take simultaneously and to the exclusion of other heirs.
(1) A.I.R. 1975 (Bombay) 257.
Whether a partition had actually taken place between the plaintiff 's husband and his sons is beside the point for the purposes of Explanation 1.
The question is which of these two views is to be preferred.
Thus, whatever be the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property, since there are six sharers in that property each having an equal share, the plaintiff 's share therein will be 1/6th.
The allotment of this share is not a processual step devised merely for the purpose of working out some other conclusion.
Section 3 of the Hindu Women 's Rights to Property Act.
That section reads thus "6.
R. B. Datar for the Appellant.
Since the view of the High.
Defendants 2 to 5 admitted the plaintiff 's claim, the suit having H been contested by defendant 1, Gurupad, only.
(see Mulla 's Hindu Law, Fourteenth Edition, page 403, para 315).
For, by doing that alone can one determine the extent of the claimant 's share.
Nothing contained in the proviso to this section shall be construed as enabling a person who has separated himself from the coparcenary before the death of the deceased or any of his heirs to claim on intestacy a share in the interest referred to therein.
(3) A.I.R. 1967 Orissa 194.
(2) A.I.R. 1974 Guj.
[1959] Stipp.
S.R. Appeal dismissed.
V. N. Ganpule and (Mrs.) V. D. Khanna for the respondent.
In our case it is not necessary, for the purposes of working out the fiction, to assume and supply a missing link which is really what was meant by Lord Asquith in his famous passage in East End Dwellings Co. Ltd. vs Finsbury Borough Council.(1)
The Hindu Succession provides by section 14(1) that any property possessed by a female Hindu, whether acquired before or after the commencement of the Act, shall be held by her as a full owner thereof and not as a limited owner.
Even assuming that two interpretations of Explanation I are reasonably possible, we must prefer that interpretation which will further the intention of the legislature and remedy the injustice from which the Hindu women have suffered over the years.
The trial court by its judgment dated July 13, 1965 rejected defendant 1 's case that the properties were Khandappa 's self acquisitions and that he had partitioned them during his lifetime.
So far there is no difficulty.
On November 6 , 1962 Hirabai filed special civil suit
Upon that finding the plaintiff.
It has to be treated and accepted as a concrete reality, something that cannot be recalled just as a share allotted to a coparcener in an actual partition cannot generally be recalled.
1937, speaking broadly, conferred upon the Hindu widow the right to a share in the joint family property as also a right to demand partition like any male member of the family.
One, her share in her husband 's share and two, her husband 's own share in the coparcenary property.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD, C.J.
The Hindu Law of Inheritance (Amendment) Act, 1929 conferred heirship rights on the son 's daughter, daughter 's daughter and sister in all areas where the Mitakshara law prevailed.
182 828 of 1975.
It will be easier, with the help of the following pedigree to understand the point involved in this appeal Khandappa Sangappa Magdum Hirabai (Plaintiff) Gurupad Biyawwa Bhagirathibai Dhundubai Shivapad (Deft. 1)
The interpretation of that Explanation is the subject matter of acute controversy between the parties.
The assumption which the statute requires to be made that a partition had in fact taken place must permeate the entire process of ascertainment of the ultimate share of the heirs, through all its stages.
The section did not provide further that in the circumstances therein stated, a notice under section 22 shall be deemed to have been issued and the notice shall be deemed not to have been complied with.
