This order was challenged before the sessions Judge by the aggrieved husband, who on a strange view of the law that the court, under section 125, had no jurisdication to consider whether the applicant was a wife, dismissed the petition in allowance of the appeal.
His next plea was that there must be proof of neglect to maintain to attract s.125 and his third contention was that there was a settlement by consent decree in 1962 whereby the mehar money had been paid and all claims adjusted, and so no claim for maintenance could survive.
The whole scheme of section 127(3) (b) is manifestly to recognise the substitute maintenance arrangement by lump sum payment organised by the custom of the community or the personal law of the parties.
For instance, it recited that this respondent had transferred the suit premises, namely, a flat in Bombay, to the appellant and also the shares of the Cooperative Housing Society which built the flat concerned.
The conclusion that we therefore reach is that the appeal should be allowed and it is hereby allowed, and the order of the trial court restored.
or has obtained a divorce from, her husband and has not remarried.
The next submission is that the absence of mutual consent to live separately must be made out if the hurdle of section 125(4) is to be over come.
M. N. Shroff for Respondent No. 2.
If any in statutory interpretation belongs to the ill used wife and the derelict divorcee.
We hold that every divorce otherwise eligible, is entitled to the benefit of maintenance allowance and the dissolution of the marriage makes no difference to this right under the current Code.
N: Criminal Appeal No.
The Questions Mooted Shri Bhandare appearing for the appellant contended that the Courts below had surprisingly forgotten the plain provision in the Explanation (b) to section 125(1) of the Code, which reads: "wife ' includes a woman who has been divorced by.
Payment of mehar money, as a customary discharge, is within the cognisance of that provision.
Obviously, he has no case of non neglect.
In this appeal, by special leave, we are called upon to interpret a benign provision enacted to ameliorate the economic condition of neglected wives and discarded divorcees, namely.
The consent decree of 1962 resolved all disputes and settled all claims then available
300/ for the son and Rs.
Law is dynamic and its meaning cannot he pedantic but purposeful.
Nor can s.127 rescue the respondent from his obligation.
She proceeded on the footing that she was still a wife while the respondent rejected this status and asserted that she was a divorce and therefore ineligible for maintenance.
Protection against moral and material abandonment manifest in article 39 is part of social and economic justice, specificated in article 38, fulfilment of which is fundamental to the governance of the country (Art.37).
So we must deal with the dual sub heads of the third ground.
No construction which leads to frustration of the statutory project can secure validation if the court is to pay true homage to the Constitution.
The appellant, finding herself in financial straits and unable to maintain herself, moved the magistrate under section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, for a monthly allowance for the maintenance of herself and her child.
But what was the amount of mehar ?
We see hardly any force in this plea.
However, Shri Sanghi, appearing for the respondent, sought sustain the order in his favour on three grounds They arc of pubic importance since the affected party in such a fact situation is the neglected divorcee.
The contractual limb of the contention must easily fail.
Do divorcees have to 1) prove mutual consent to live apart?
The keynote thought is adequacy of payment which will take reasonable care of her maintenance.
Surely, Parliament, in keeping with article 15(3) and deliberate by design, made a special provision to help women in distress cast away by divorce.
The last defence, based on mehar payment, merits more serious attention.
If law has nexus with life this argument is still born.
derived from values in a given society and its legal system.
In this generous jurisdiction, a broader perception and appreciation of the facts and their bearing must govern the verdict not chopping little logic or tinkering with burden of proof.
Thereafter, again they separated, became entranged.
This traumatic horror animates the amplitude of s.127.
332 of 1977.
So, section 125 and sister clauses must receive a compassionate expansion of sense that the words used permit.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by A Prefatory statement KRISHNA IYER, J.
For some time there was flickering improvement in the relations between the quondum husband and the quondum wife and they lived together.
In the normal course, an order for maintenance must follow, the quantum having been determined by the learned Magistrate at the trial level.
The initial warmth vanished and the jealousies of a triangular situation erupted, marring mutual affection.
The only just construction of the section is that Parliament intended divorcees should not derive a double benefit.
80 section 125 requires, as a sine qua non for its application, neglect by husband or father.
This is obviously beyond dispute or.
5,000/ and 'iddat ' money, Rs. 180/ ) which was also stated to have been adjusted by the compromise terms.
The respondent divorced the appellant around July 1962.
The Constitution is a pervasive omnipresence brooding over the meaning and transforming the values of every measure.
77 M. C. Bhandare, A. N. Karkhanis, Miss Malini Panduval and Mrs. section Bhandare for the Appellant.
Divorce painfully implies that the husband orders her out of the conjugal home.
