The learned Counsel for the appellant advanced the usual argument submitted in all cases where an order of acquittal is reversed, namely, that where two views of the evidence are possible, the accused is entitled to the benefit of the doubt arising from the two views and that where the Trial Court has taken a possible view and acquitted the accused, the High Court should not interfere with the order of acquittal merely because another view is also possible.
P.W. 3, an old woman of 69 years, stated in her evidence that she saw the accused who was sitting by the side of the deceased on the cot make a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased and that the deceased cried out 'Amma. '
On 18th December, 1972, according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P. Ws.
1, 2 and 3 were of a minor character and that they have been unduly magnified by the learned Sessions Judge.
The appeal is dismissed.
We do not think that an injury of the nature received by the deceased could have been caused in the manner suggested by the accused.
1 to 3 or the evidence of P. Ws.
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 p.m. was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P. 15 the wound certificate given by P.W. 13 the Medical officer in respect of the injuries which he found on the person of the accused.
P. W. 1 came upon him with a knife to stab him.
It is, therefore, essential that any view of the evidence in favour of the accused must be reasonable even as any doubt, the benefit of which an accused person may claim, must be reasonable.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan, this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion, bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup 's case.
In cross examination she stated that she did not remember if she had told the Police that the accused made a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
below the arm pit on the left side.
There was no fracture.
The accused, the deceased, her brother P.W. 1, her mother P.W. 2 and her grand mother P.W. 3 were all sleeping in the room.
vs State of U.P. & Anr.(1).
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P. W. 1 and himself.
We are unable to find any substance in the submissions made by the, learned Counsel for the appellant.
At one time it was thou ht that an order of acquittal could be set aside for "substantial and compelling reasons" only and Courts used to launch on a search to discover those "substantial and compelling reasons".
When the Police officers went to the village, they 366 found the accused tied to a pole.
This, of course, is not a new principle.
Thereafter, P. W. 9 prepared his own report exhibit P. 4 and sent it alongwith exhibit P. 1 and M.O. 1 to the Police Station at Renigunta.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
They insulted him.
A reasonable doubt", it has been remarked, "does not mean some light, airy, insubstantial doubt that may flit through the minds of any of us about almost anything at some time or other, it does not mean a doubt begotten by sympathy out of reluctance to convict; it means a real doubt, a doubt founded upon reason"(4).
But, fanciful and remote possibilities must be left out of account.
He felt giddy and was about to lose consciousness.
