One of the grounds on which the appellants challenged the validity of the electoral roll, the calendar of events and the declaration of results of election was that the entire election process had become vitiated on account of the defect in the notice issued under Rule (1) of the Rules notifying that claims and objections should be preferred within a period of 20 days from the date of the publication of that notice when sub rule (3) of Rule 4 of the Rules prescribed that such claims and objections could be preferred within 30 days from the date of publication of that notice.
We have, therefore, to proceed on the basis that it was only on December S, 1978 for the first time that the attention of the Collector was drawn to the said error and that the writ petition itself was presented on December 28, 1978.
On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, we are of the view that the writ petition was rightly dismissed by the High Court as there was no satisfactory explanation for the delay in preferring it.
It was also alleged that on October 20, 1978, 34 persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 approached the Deputy Collector to entertain their claim for inclusion in the electoral roll and he refused to receive their applications.
5 6 in CA 1617/79.
It is not the case of the petitioners that they did not know immediately after the publication of such notice that in the said notice a period of 20 days had been mentioned in its preamble as the period within which the claims and objections could be preferred and in paragraph 7 thereof it had been stated that any such claim or objection filed beyond the prescribed period was liable to be rejected.
The final electoral roll was published on November 16, 1978.
It was open to them to move the State Government under Rule 6 of the Rules to make an order directing the Collector to follow .
It was notified that the nominations could be filed on and after November 25, 1978 and the poll, if necessary, would take place on December 31, 1978.
Aggrieved by the order passed by the High Court, Ashok Kumar Mishra and Bhagwat Singh Thakur (Petitioners No. 1 and 5 respectively in the 494 petition before the High Court) filed a petition for special leave to appeal to this Court and Purshottam Lal Sharma (petitioner No. 6 before the High Court) filed another petition.
The period prescribed for preferring claims and objections under Rule 4(3) was 30 days.
The claim of petitioner No. 5 was rejected as no evidence in support of his claim was produced before the Deputy Collector.
They also prayed for the issue of an interim order staying the poll which had been fixed to be held on December 31, 1978.
By that time, the nominations had all been received.
The petitioners were not entitled to any relief under Article 226 of the Constitution on account of the inordinate delay involved in the presentation of the writ petition.
It was further pleaded that no other claims or objections were preferred either on October 20, 1978 or on any other sub sequent date.
For the purpose of holding election to the .
Appeals by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated 20 1 1979 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Misc.
We, therefore, find it unnecessary to deal with the other points urged before us.
If they felt that the said notice suffered from any illegality, they could have brought it to the notice of the Collector immediately 496 thereafter.
No such appeal was presented.
section K. Gambhir for RR.
