Sadashiva Yati pleaded that on the death of Mahant Shivshanker Yati he was elected Mahant of Math Sauna and was, therefore, entitled as Sarbarakar to all the properties recorded in the deity Mahadeo Ji or in the name of Mahant Shivshanker Yati.
In our judgment, the High Court is right in the view that the Amauli properties constitute the personal property of Uma Shankar Yati and do not form part of the properties of the Math Sauna or of the deity, Sri Thakur, Gokarneshwar Mahadeoji.
From the judgment and decree dated April 21, 1969 of the Allahabad High Court in First Appeal
On his 664 death in 1917, the fund passed to Mahant Shivshankar Yati, who in 1921 employed it for the purchase of the Amauli properties.
First Appeal No. 80 of 1964 was filed by Kedar Nath Chaubey @
In the result, the appeal is dismissed with costs.
The surplus, the deed directed was to be employed for acquiring further property in the name of the deity and was not to be applied by the Sarbarakar to his personal use.
He alleged that Mahant Shivshanker Yati owned personal properties which included the properties in village Amauli, that he was the chela of Mahant Shivshanker Yati and the Amauli properties had passed to him under a will executed by the Mahant.
That certain sects of sanyasis could acquire personal property was accepted by that eminent Judge, Dr. B.K. Mukherjee, in his "Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trusts",(a) where he says: "A Mohunt, and for the matter of that, any other Sanyasi can acquire personal property of his own.
He was granted a succession certificate by the District Judge, Ghazipur in respect of the two fixed deposits made by Mahant Shivpher Yati in the Bank of Bengal.
663 There is reason to believe that Mohant Shivbaran Yati, Mohant Shivpher Yati and Mahant Shivshankar Yati were not celibates and had been grihasthas, and were entitled to possess, enjoy and acquire personal property.
We concur with that finding.
Uma Shanker Yati against the declaration that the Amauli properties were owned by Math Sauna or the deity and that Sadashiv Yati was in possession thereof as Mahant and Sarbarakar.
As has been observed, there can be no presumption either way.
This Court in Gurcharan Prasad vs Krishnanand (2) affirmed that Nihang Dashnami Sanyasis could pursue money lending business and could own property as absolute owners, and enjoy them as their personal property.
The Mahants and members of Math Sauna belonged to the Dashnami Sanyasi sect.
Two appeals were filed in the High Court.
10,000 for a moiety share in the other.
The Pronamis given to a Mohunt are generally his personal property.
ivil Appeal No. 196 of 1 970.
It was claimed that in the event of Mahant Sadashiva Yati being found out of possession a decree for possession should be made.
In the present case, it is difficult to conclude from the material before us that the total income from the properties belonging to the Math and the deity left any appreciable surplus after meeting the expenditure on account of bhog, arpan, deepdan, daily and annual puja and the other obligations specified in the waqf deed.
R.K. Garg, Mrs. Urmila Sirur and Shiv Pujan Singh, for the Respondents.
40,000 forming part of a fund left behind by his predecessor Mahant Shivpher Yati.
S.T. Desai, A.T.M. Sampath, Mukul Mudgal and Raju Ramachandran for the Appellants.
