one of which is to provide for the development and administration of Special Areas through Special Area Development Authorities, Section 64 of the Act of 1973, which provides for the constitution of the special areas, lays down by sub section (4) that: Notwithstanding anything contained in the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956, the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961, or the Madhya Pradesh Panchayats Act, 1962, the Municipal Corporation, Municipal Council, Notified Area Committee or a Panchayat, as the case may be, shall, in relation to the special area and as from the date the Special Area Development Authority undertakes the functions under clause (v) or clause (vi) of section 68 cease to exercise the powers and perform the function and duties which the Special Area Development Authority is competent to exercise and perform under the Act of 1973.
The appellant Company disputed its liability to pay the aforesaid amounts on the grounds, principally, that no tax was leviable on its property since the Company was owned wholly by the Government of India and that respondent 1 was estopped from levying the property tax by reason of the agreement of 1976.
The property tax is imposed by respondent 1 under section 127A of the Municipalities Act and section 135 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
It is true that on account of the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, the legislative field covered by Entry 23 of List II will pass on to Parliament by virtue of Entry 54, List I.
the rate specified in the table below:" Nothing further is required to be done by the Municipality or the Municipal Corporation in order to impose the property tax and therefore the procedure preliminary to the imposition of other taxes which is prescribed by sections 129 and 133 of the two Acts, can 15 have no application to the imposition of the property tax.
With Civil Appeal No. 213 of 1979 6 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 15th April, 1978 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Misc.
3 lakhs on the Company for contribution for the year 1977.
It was held by this Court that the Haryana Act was not in any way repugnant to the provisions of the Act of 1957 made by Parliament and that the ownership rights could be validly acquired by the State Government under the State Act.
The power conferred by the State Legislature on Special Area Development Authorities to impose the property tax on lands and buildings is therefore not in conflict with the power conferred by the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act on the Union Government to regulate and develop the Coal mines so as to ensure rational and scientific utilisation of coal resources.
The short answer to this contention is that even though the entire share capital of the appellant companies has been subscribed by the Government of India, it cannot be predicated that the companies themselves are owned by the Government of India.
Ordinance No. 4 of 1976 inserted certain provisions in the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act.
The three Acts are therefore supplemental, from which it must follow that amendments made to the earlier Acts after the enactment of section 69(d) shall have to be read into that section.
It says that "the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax".
Section 69, by clauses (c) and (d), confers upon the Development Authority powers for the purpose of municipal administration and for the purpose of taxation.
Civil Appeals Nos. 1025 and 1026 of 1978 are by Western Coalfields Ltd.
Similarly section 133 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act prescribes the procedure for "the imposition of any tax under section 132".
They provide: Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, as and from the financial year 1976 77, there shall be charged, levied and paid for each financial year a tax on the lands or buildings or both. .at
These are the main points argued by the learned Attorney General on behalf of the appellant Companies.
That Company has been called upon by respondent 1 to pay property tax for the years 1976 77 and 1977 78 in the sum of Rs.
The Act of 1973 does not provide for any independent power of taxation or any machinery of its own for exercising the power of taxation.
On the question as to whether the Corporation carried on an industry under the authority of the Central Government within the meaning of section 2(a) of the , it was held by this Court that an incorporated company has a separate existence and the law recognises it as a juristic person, separate and distinct from its members.
Petition No.
In the case last cited, the Privy Council qualified its statement of the law by saying that the principle, that an amendment of the first law which is not expressly made applicable to the subsequent incorporating Act cannot be deemed to be incorporated into the second Act, applies "if it is possible for the subsequent Act to function effectually without the addition" (page 267).
For these reasons the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.
555 of 1977 filed by it in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh under Article 226 of the Constitution.
For conferring powers to levy tax on the entry of goods in place of octroi tax, the Madhya Pradesh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar Adhyadesh, 1976 (6 of 1976) was promulgated.
Ltd. section K. Gambhir for the applicant intervener State of M.P.
This contention was repelled by this Court by holding that sections 78 and 79 of the Madras District Boards Act had nothing to do with the development of mines and minerals or their regulation.
The obligation which the statute places upon it is to impose tax on lands where there are lands only and they can be taxed, on buildings where buildings alone can be brought to tax and on both lands and buildings where lands are built upon and both can be brought to tax.
Such a direction was first issued by Notification dated January 28, 1976 published in the Government Gazette, dated February 27, 1976 by which the Development Authority, Korba, was directed to exercise the powers and perform the functions of a Class I Municipality constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Municipality Act, 1961.
This is not, as said by the Attorney General rationalising the taxing power.
No documents seem to have been filed before it to bear out facts which are sought to be placed before us nor indeed have we evidence before us to show that the lands belong to the State Government.
The Delhi High Court has held in L.P.A. 105 of 1979 that the Delhi Municipal Corporation has the power to levy property tax on the property of the Jammu and Kashmir State Agro Industries Corporation Ltd., whose share capital is owned by the State of Jammu and Kashmir and the Union of India in the proportion of 51% and 49% respectively.
Respondent 1 is the Special Area Development Authority, Korba, District Bilaspur, M.P., respondent 2 is its Chairman and respondent 3 is the State of Madhya Pradesh.
Entry 23 of List II relates to "Regulation of mines and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union".
These two clauses of section 69 and clauses (v) and (vi) of section 68 were inserted in their present shape by Ordinance 26 of 1975 which came into force on February 27, 1976.
The decision of this Court in the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation vs The Income tax Officer & Anr. puts the matter beyond all doubt.
(See Secretary of State for India in Council vs Hindustan Co operative Insurance Society Limited; Craies on Statute Law, 7th Edition, pages 360 361.)
The appellant, Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd., is a Government Company incorporated under the , the entire share capital being owned by the Government of India.
As observed in Nathella Sampathu Chetty, there is a distinction between a mere reference to or a citation of one statute in another and an incorporation which in effect means the bodily lifting of the provisions of one enactment and making them part of another, so much so that the repeal of the former leaves the latter wholly untouched.
Its servants are not civil servants, and its property is not Crown property.
The Ordinance was replaced by the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 1976 (6 of 1976).
Therefore, amendments made in the earlier law after the date of incorporation cannot, by their own force, be read into the later law.
That amount not having been paid as provided in the agreement, respondent 1 terminated the agreement by its letter dated February 4, 1977.
(ii) X X X X X X (iii)X X X X X X (iv) X X X X X X (v) where the annual letting 20 per centum value exceeds of the annual Rs.
In that case, the Bihar Government demanded dead rent, royalty and surface rent from the appellant contrary to the terms of his lease on the strength of the amended section 10(2) of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, and the amended Rule 20 of the Bihar Rules.
It provides that, for the purpose of taxation, the Special Area Development Authority shall have the powers which a Municipal Corporation or a Municipal Council has under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961.
Those authorities have the power to levy that tax in order effectively to discharge the municipal functions which are passed on to them.
Finally, the learned Attorney General raised a contention of fundamental importance which was not raised in the High Court.
Since the Central Act was primarily concerned with the development and regulation of declared industries and not with the ownership of industrial undertakings, it was held that the State legislature had the competence to enact the impugned law.
The Act of 1973 did not, by section 69(d), incorporate in its true signification any particular provision of the two earlier Acts.
The Writ Petitions (61 and 62 of 1978) filed by it were dismissed by the High Court, following the judgment delivered in the Writ Petition filed by the Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd.
We would, however, like to draw attention to the Explanation to section 147 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act which says that though the property tax has to be paid by the owner of the land or building, as the case may be, for the purposes of that section a tenant of land or building or both, who holds the same under a lease for an agreed period with a convenant for its renewal thereafter, shall be deemed to be the owner thereof.
Their property is their own and it vests in them.
By section 36 of the aforesaid Adhiniyam, local authorities were prohibited from recovering the property tax from November 24, 1970.
We have allowed both the parties to intervene in these appeals.
It is as much bound by Acts of Parliament as any other subject of the King.
In that case, 12 sugar undertakings stood transferred to and were vested in a Government undertaking under the U.P. Sugar Undertakings (Acquisition) Ordinance, 1971, which later became an Act.
This contention is devoid of substance.
It is not possible to accept this submission because sections 127A and 135 of the two Acts in question leave no such choice open to the taxing authority.
The appellants may, if so advised, raise this particular point in future assessments.
But these rules are not absolute and inflexible.
The appellant companies were incorporated under the for a lawful purpose.
Section 55 provides that for every Special Area there shall be a Special Area Development Authority consisting of a Chairman and such other members as the Government may determine from time to time.
26 of 1975 was made effective.
We adopt, particularly, the reasoning of the High Court that in the meeting of January 29, 1976, respondent 1 had decided to give up its right to impose the Octroi tax only.
Those demands were challenged by the lessee on the ground, inter alia, that the provision imposing the land cess quoad royalty under the mining leases must be held to have been repealed by the Central Act viz.
13,65,673.50 as property tax for the year 1977 78.
Industrial Corpn.
Section 69(d) of the Act of 1973 reads thus: "69.
It was therefore a Government Company under section 617 of the .
vs Chanan Mal.
Petitions Nos.
That the declaration in section 2 of the does not result in invalidation of every State legislation relating to mines and minerals is demonstrated effectively by the decision in State of Haryana & Anr.
Shri Dharmadhikari, who appears on behalf of the respondents, has drawn our attention to the judgment of a Constitution Bench of this Court in H.R.S. Murthy vs Collector of Chittoor and Another, which provides a complete answer to the Attorney General 's contention.
Chapter VIII of the Act, consisting of sections 64 to 71, is entitled "Special Areas".
By a letter dated May 21, 1977 respondent 1 reduced the demand by Rs.
Without recourse to such a construction, the power of taxation conferred by that section will become ineffectual.
Section 132(1)(a) refers to property tax.
Entry 54 of List I does not contemplate the taking over of municipal functions.
