It is also urged that the status of Associate Professor of Radiology (ex officio) which the appellant holds in the Irwin Hospital is akin to that of honorary Professor or Associate Professor in the Willing don Hospital or the Safdarjang Hospital and the mere designation of the appellant as Associate Professor of Radiology (ex officio) by the University of Delhi does not give him a right to hold the post of Professor of Radiology in Maulana Azad Medical College.
" R. 8 (3) provides that 50% of the vacancies in Supertime Grade II to be filled in by promotion of General Duty officers Grade I and Specialists Grade II officers in the ratio of 2:3 and the remaining 50% of the vacancies to be filled by direct recruitment in the manner specified in the Second Schedule.
It is declared that the appellant had acquired the requisite teaching experience as envisaged by r. 8 (2A) and paragraph 3 of Annexure I to the Second Schedule of the Central Health Service Rules, 1963, as amended by the Central Health Service (Amendment) Rules, 1966, and was therefore eligible to be considered for appointment to the post of Associate Professor of Radiotherapy in Maulana Azad Medical College which had fallen vacant in 1973.
1800 2250; Supertime Grade II with a pay scale of Rs.
Since Dr. Bose was holding the clinical post of Radiologist, he was not in direct line of and eligible for promotion to the post of Associate Professor.
No. 4 of Annexure II to the Second Schedule and on the basis of these provisions it is asserted that for promotion to the post of Associate Professor at least five years ' experience as Reader/Associate Professor in the concerned speciality in a medical college/teaching institution after the requisite post graduate qualification is absolutely essential.
NON TEACHING POSTS Specialists ' Grade (now Specialist Grade II)
That according to the provisions of the CHS Rules, all posts of Lecturers, Assistant Professors and Associated Professors were required to be filled through the UPSC before the Rules came to be amended with effect from 18 9 1971.
General Duty Officers Grade
R. 8 provides that after appointments have been made to the Service under rs.
As the statutory rules do not provide that the teaching experience gained in an ex officio capacity shall not count towards the requisite teaching experience, the teaching experience gained by the appellant while holding the post of Radiologist cum Associate Professor of Radiology (ex officio) in the Irwin Hospital cannot be ignored in determining his eligibility for appointment as Professor or Radiology in Maulana Azad Medical College.
i. e. by direct recruitment through the Union Public Service Commission.
However, the University College of Medical Sciences which is under the administrative control of the University of Delhi has been utilising the services of the Medical officers of the CHS working in the Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi, for clinical teaching of the students of the University College of Medical Sciences.
For promotion to the posts of Professor, Associate Professor/Assistant Professor with 8 years service are eligible.
Supertime Grade I (Level II) Rs.
On October 9, 1964 he was appointed as a Radiologist in the Irwin Hospital which was a post in Category `C ' of the Central Health Service.
(Qualifications relaxable at Commission 's discretion in the case of candidates otherwise well qualified).
R.8 provided for the future maintenance of the Service.
(2) and (2A) of r.8 and paragraphs 2(b) and 3 of Annexure I to the Second Schedule of the Central Health Service (Amendment) Rules, 1966.
The question that falls for consideration is whether the appellant possessed the qualification and experience requisite for appointment to the post of Associate Professor of Radiotherapy in Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi, and if not, whether the appellant is eligible for appointment to the post of Professor of Radiotherapy in that College.
After the amendment of the CHS Rules, only Assistant Professors possessing five years experience were eligible for appointment as Associate Professor.
R. 8 (2) provides that every vacancy in the Specialists ' Grade shall be filled by direct recruitment in the manner specified in the Second Schedule.
The medical colleges run by the Central Health Service are : (1) Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi; (2) Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi; and (3) Jawaharlal Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education & Research (JIPMER), Pondichery.
There is a failure on the part of the Ministry of Health to draw a distinction between teaching and non teaching hospitals under the Central Health Service.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SEN, J. This appeal by special leave from a judgment and order of the Delhi High Court dated January 9, 1979 raises a question of some complexity.
Categories 'A ' to 'E '.
Normally, a Professor or an Additional Professor in a medical college or teaching institution can be appointed by direct recruitment from amongst persons holding the post of Associate Professor or Assistant Professor in the concerned speciality in a medical college or a teaching institution having at least six years ' teaching experience out of 12 years ' standing in the Grade through the Union Public Service Commission.
Vacancies in the Specialist Grade I posts of Senior Specialists are filled by direct recruitment and by promotion to the ratio of 1 : 1.
There is hardly any difference so for as teaching experience is concerned whether it is acquired on regular appointment or as Specialist in a teaching hospital with the ex officio designation.
