In being served with the order of injunction, Ved Gupta wrote to the District Magistrate on September 24, 1980 that it had become impossible for him to operate the Cinema licence in view of the temporary injunction issued by the District Court and since it is only the licensee who is held responsible under the Act and the Rules for due compliance with all the terms and conditions of the licence and answerable to the licensing authority for all commissions and omissions in the Cinema premises, he may be saved from any prosecution or other action under law in the capacity of licensee of the Apsara Theatre in respect of any illegal acts or offences committed by others in the said premises.
These contentions were repelled by the District Magistrate who held that the renewal of the licence could not be made in the name of any party other than the original licensee, namely, Shri Ved Gupta, who had been declared to be the sole licensee in respect of the Apsara Theatre by the proceedings of his predecessor dated December 29, 1977, which was confirmed in appeal by the State Government and which had acquired finality between the parties by reason of the dismissal of the writ petition and the Special Leave Petition by the High Court and Supreme Court, respectively.
The next ground stated in the impugned judgment for quashing the order passed by the District Magistrate is that the said order was violative of the principles of natural justice in as much as no notice or hearing had been given to the partnership firm before the order was passed.
Although we entertain very serious doubts about the correctness of the view taken by the Division Bench of the High Court regarding the applicability of Rule 23 (3) to the instant case, we do not feel called upon to examine the said question in depth or to pronounce upon it in this case in view of the conclusion arrived at by us on the merits of the case that the conclusions recorded by the Acting Chief Justice on the points that arose for decision in the Letters Patent Appeal cannot be legally sustained and that there was no justification for interference by the Division Bench with the judgment of the learned Single Judge, dismissing the writ petition.
454 of 1981?
That writ petition was dismissed by the High Court on May 9, 1978, S.L.P. Civil No. 3490 of 1978 filed by Todar Mal against the High Court 's order dismissing his writ petition was rejected by this Court on November 13, 1978.
We are also unable to accept as correct the view expressed by the learned Acting Chief Justice that under the Act the licence is granted for premises permanently equipped for cinematograph exhibition in the name of the owner/ Manager of the Cinematographs used in the premises and hence it necessarily follows that where the licensed premises including the cinematograph used therein belongs to a partnership and one of the partners obtains a licence in his separate name, the other partners automatically acquire interests in the licence and that the privilege granted by the licensing authority "must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph".
Krishan Kumar was a party respondent in the Special Leave Petition also.
Civil Appeal No. 2611 of 1981 is directed against the judgment of the learned Acting Chief Justice which has been treated as the final judgment in the Letters Patent Appeal and Civil Appeal No.
So long as they did not have a licence we have already found that the licence had been granted to Ved Gupta only in his individual and personal capacity and not as a representative of the firm the firm and the partners had no legal right whatever to operate the cinema.
16.9.80 has intimated that there was exhibition of films on 25th September, 1980, in Apsara Theatre by persons other than the licensee; And whereas under the provisions of the Cinematograph Act, read with rules, none other than licensee is permitted to exhibit films during the currency of the licence without permission of the licensing authority; Now, therefore, I, A. Sahasranaman, District Magistrate, Jammu, hereby order that exhibition of films in Apsara Theatre will remain suspended till further orders.
There was no suspension of the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Theatre.
Proceeding on that premise, the learned Acting Chief Justice has said that under the provisions of the Act the power to suspend a licence is conferred only by Section 6 F of the Act as one implicit in the larger power of revocation and unless the conditions precedent mentioned in the said Section are present, the licensing authority had no jurisdiction to suspend the licence.
Thereupon, Todar Mal preferred an appeal against the said order passed by the District Magistrate.
Rule 23 is in the following terms: "23 (1) In the event of a difference of opinion among the judges composing any bench of the court, the decision shall be in accordance with the opinion of the majority of the Judges.
Krishan Kumar addressed a letter to the District Magistrate, Jammu, requesting that the renewal of the licence may be granted "in the name of the "premises of Apsara Theatre" The District Magistrate rejected the said request by a detailed order dated April 21, 1979.
That Section is in the following terms: "6 F. Power to revoke licence Where the holder of a licence or a person in charge of a cinematography, or management thereof or an owner or partner thereof or an employee thereof, has been convicted of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of this Act, or under Section 15 of the Jammu and Kashmir Entertainments Duty Act, 1959, the licence may be revoked by the licensing authority. "
The legality of the aforesaid orders was challenged before the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir in Writ Petition No.
J. Sorabjee, K. K. Venugopal and R. P. Bhatt, for respondent in 2611 A/81.
Clause 15 of the said deed provided that the site for construction of a Cinema which had been obtained on lease by Ved Gupta, Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar in their own names shall not be their personal property, but shall be the property of the partnership, and that the permission which Ved Gupta had obtained from the Government for construction of the Theatre in the said plot shall be treated as the property of the partnership.
What was done by the District Magistrate was only to suspend the exhibition of cinematograph films in Apsara Theatre by persons who are not licensees and who had no authority in law to conduct such exhibition of films.
The Judgment and order of the Division Bench of the High Court presided over by learned Acting Chief Justice is set aside and one by learned Single Judge, Dr. A. section Anand, is restored and consequently the Writ Petition No.
The Minister of State for Revenue and Law, Government of Jammu and Kashmir, heard counsel on both sides and ultimately dismissed Todar Mal 's appeal by a detailed order, of which Annexure G is a copy.
On September 26, 1980, the Superintendent of Police, Jammu, reported to the District District Magistrate that cinema exhibition in Apsara Theatre was being conducted by some persons other than the licensee, and, hence the licensee had been challenged by him under Section 6 of the Act.
The writ petitioners could not also have any legitimate expectation that they will be allowed to run the Theatre without a licence in violation of the law.
In this connection, it is relevant to refer to Rule 88(v).
Accordingly the Division Bench passed orders in C.M.P. No.
From Annexure B, it would appear that the permission so granted was in favour of Ved Ved Gupta in his individual capacity and not as the representative of any firm.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court, Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
The District Magistrate was requested by the said letter that orders may be passed suspending the exhibition of films in the Cinema till the final decision of the court is made in favour of either of the parties.
On the date of the institution itself, the District Judge, Jammu, issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
That appeal was heard by a Division 19 Bench consisting of Mufti Baha ud din Farooqi, Acting Chief Justice and Mir,
