The Trial Court further expressed the view that the other averments in the claim that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal were not established and even if such a representation was made, that did not alter the position as under the rules the payment of the premium could never amount to the acceptance of the proposal if the proposal was not otherwise accepted.
Having regard to the clear position in law about acceptance of insurance proposal and the evidence on record in this case, we are, therefore, of the opinion that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that there was a concluded contract of insurance between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation and on that basis reversing the judgment and the decision of the learned Subordinate Judge.
It was, further, stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
Cheque for Rs.
The High Court was of the view that the plea that Divisional Manager was the only authority to accept had not been categorically taken in the written statement filed on behalf of the Corporation.
S.R. Appeal allowed.
On the 10th January, 1964, the plaintiffs filed the suit in the court of Subordinate Judge, Masulipatam.
He had stated that the purpose of review slip was to enable the Divisional Manager to asses the risk and take a decision.
The mere execution of the policy is not an acceptance; an acceptance, to be complete, must be communicated to the offeror, either directly, or by some definite act, such as placing the contract in the mail.
The High Court, in our opinions was also wrong in its view about the powers of the different authorities under Chapter III of the Standing order, 1960 dealing with the financial powers.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam, and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
The Trial Court therefore held that there was no concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation.
There was medical examination by the doctor on the life of the deceased on 27th December, 1960.
In the facts and circumstances of the case there will be no order as to costs in this Court.
See in this connection statement of law in MacGillivray & Parkington on Insurance Law, Seventh Edition page 94 paragraph 215.
In his deposition, he had stated that the Divisional Manager was the competent authority for accepting the proposal for Rs.
By the said Judgment and decree, the High Court of Andhra Pradesh had reversed the Judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge, Masulipatam dated 19th November, 1964 dismissing the suit of the plaintiffs respondents against the appellant.
The Divisional Manager, Masulipatam Branch, denied liability on behalf of the appellant Corporation on 28th January, 1961.
50,000 exhibit B 13 is the copy of the Standing order.
He held that as per the prospectus of Life Insurance Corporation of India the risk under the Corporation policy commenced on the date of receipt of the first premium in full or the date of acceptance whichever was later and the second instalment of the premium falls due on a date calculated from such date of commencement of risk.
Late Shri Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prashad was the husband of respondent No. 1 and father of the respondents No. 2 to 5 herein.
1,00,000 should be referred to the Central Underwriting Section."
The endorsement therein of the assistant Divisional Manager read as follows: "NOTES AND DECISION : may be accepted at O.R." WITH E.D.B.
When the acceptance was complete and when there was no requirement necessary and if the full first instalment was 356 in deposit, it would be adjusted towards premium amount, he stated.
XLV page 986 wherein it has been stated as: "The mere receipt and retention of premiums until after the death of applicant does not give rise to a contract, although the circumstances may be such that approval could be inferred from retention of the premium.
