737 It is urged by Shri Jain who appears on behalf of the appellant that by reason of section 14(4) of the Amending Act, the appellant was entitled to continue in the service of the Panchayat on the same terms and conditions on which he was employed by the Panchayat Samiti until he was absorbed in Government service.
But, as a result of the deletion of section 33 of the Act by the Amending Act of 1973, the Panchayat Samiti lost its power to make appointments to the Panchayat.
On April 1, 1975, the appellant was appointed as a Head Clerk.
1433 of 1977 Appeal by Special leave from the Judgment and Order dated the 16th February, 1.977 of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Civil Writ Petition No.
S.R. Appeal dismissed.
Since the appellant, according to the terms and conditions of his service with the Panchayat, was entitled to be considered for promotion to the post of a Head Clerk, his appointment as a Head Clerk prior to his absorption in Government service had to be recognised and protected, despite the fact that such appointment was made after June 13, 1973 when the Amending Act came into force.
On January 21, 1974 he was promoted as a Head Clerk on an ad hoc basis.
There is no substance in this contention.
any other law for the time being in force.
He was appointed lawfully to the post of a Clerk and that is the post in which the Government has absorbed him.
Clearly, it had fortified that right on June 13, 1973.
The Punjab Panchayat Samitis, Zilla Parishads (Haryana Amendment) Act, 1973 introduced extensive amendments in the Act of 1961.
Harbans Lal, I.S. Goel & R.N. Poddar for the Respondent.
752 of 1977.
J.D. Jain & Mrs. Kawaljit Kocher for the Appellant.
There will be no order as to costs.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD, CJ.
The appellant was appointed as a clerk by the Loharu Panchayat Samiti in 1963, long before the Amending Act came into force on June 13, 1973.
He was confirmed in that post in course of time.
Section 33 of the Punjab Panchayat Samitis and Zilla Parishads Act; 1961 ("The Act") provided in so far as relevant, that subject to rules made by the Government, a Panchayat Samiti may employ such servants as it may consider necessary for the efficient performance of the duties imposed upon it by the Act, rules or bye laws made thereunder or by.
On March 14, 1975 a resolution was passed by respondent 3 regularising the post of Head Clerk.
Section 13 of the Amending Act deleted section 33 of the Act.
Being aggrieved by his absorption on a lower post, he filed a writ petition in the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, asking that he should be absorbed as a Head Clerk.
A plain consequence of this deletion was that the Panchayat Samitis were divested of their power to make appointments to the Panchayats.
He was, therefore, entitled to be absorbed in Government service as a clerk in any event.
Civil Appeal No.
For these reasons, the appeal fails and is dismissed.
