The case of the petitioners as laid in the writ petitions is that there was no basis at all for reducing the age of retirement from 58 to 55; that the age of retirement was increased from 55 to 58 by the Government of Andhra Pradesh by a notification dated October 29, 1979 and nothing had happened since then to justify reduction of the age of retirement again to 5 i; that providing employment opportunities to the youths h Is no relevance on the question of fixing the age of retirement; that the Government had exercised its power arbitrarily without having regard to factors which are relevant on the fixation of the age of retirement; that the Government had acted unreasonably in not giving any previous notice to the employees which would have enabled them to arrange their affairs on the eve of retirement; that the Government was estopped from reducing the age of retirement to 55, since the employees had acted on the representation made to them in 1979 by increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58; that as a result of the increase in the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years in 1976, a vested right had accrued to the employees, which could be taken away, if at all, only from future entrants to the Government service; that retirement of experienced and mature persons from Government service will result in grave detriment to public services of the State; and that, the decision of the Government is bad for a total non application of mind to the relevant facts and circumstances bearing on the question of the age of retirement, like increased longevity.
Clause 10(1) of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee, not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
The instances of non application of mind cited by the learned counsel are these: The inclusion o f the employees of the High Court within the sweep of the Ordinance in violation of the provisions of Chapters V and VI of the Constitution; the inclusion of the employees of the Legislature Secretariat within the Ordinance; the extension of the Ordinance even to the daily rate workers; and, finally, the fact that nothing worthwhile is likely to be achieved by the passing of the Ordinance since, at the highest, it would create employment at this point of time only, for about 19,500 employees After that point of time passes, the same state of affairs will continue since the age of retirement will be merely substituted by 58 in place of 55 years.
.TB 3.0" State Retirement Age Haryana 58 years Jammu & Kashmir 55 years Karnataka 1979 58 years 1981 55 years Kerala 1967 55 years 1968 58 years 597 1969 55 years 1984 58 years Madhya Pradesh 58 years; Reduced to 55 years 1967; enhanced to S years in 1970.
It is stated in that affidavit that the question of the age of superannuation was not referred to the one Man Pay Commission of Shri A. Krishnaswamy, which was appointed by the Andhra Pradesh Government on November 3, 1 977; that the recommendation made by the Pay Commission was casual and was not based on relevant criteria; that as many as 12,04,008 educated youths were left without employment on September 30, 1979 as a result of the unwarranted increase in the age of superannuation from 55 to 58; that the number of unemployed youths had grown to 17,84,699 by December 31, 1982; and that, the age of retirement was reduced because it is the duty of the State, within the limits of its economic capacity and development to make effective provision to solve the unemployment problem.
Therefore, the amendment made to the Fundamental Rules in the exercise of power conferred by Article 309, by which the proviso to rule 2 was deleted retrospectively, was a valid exercise of legislative power.
Care must also be taken to ensure that the statistics are not perverted to serve a malevolent purpose 605 Shri V.M. Tarkunde, who appears for some of the petitioners, A limited his argument to the contention that arbitrary fixation of retirement age amounts to "removal" from service and is therefore violative of Article 311 (2) of the Constitution This argument has to be rejected because of our conclusion that the reduction of the age of retirement from 58 to 55 in the instant case is not hit by Article 14 or Article 16, since it is not arbitrary or unreasonable in the circumstances of the case.
Purshottam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India(4) and P. Balakotiah vs Union of India(5).
Clause 16 of the Ordinance provides that no amendment to the Fundamental Rules shall be deemed to be invalid merely by reason of the fact that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules laid down that the said rules shall not be modified or replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service.
The question as to whether the age of retirement should be raised.
The 607 power to issue an ordinance is not an executive power but is the power of the executive to legislate.
The Third Central Pay Commission (1973) dealt with the question of age of superannuation in Chapter 60 of its Report.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
G.N. Rao for the State.
Under article 32 of the Constitution of India) AND Transfer Case Nos.
It is untenable to contend that a law is bad because it is passed immediately on the assumption of office by a new Government.
We are not concerned in these writ petitions with clauses 3 to 9 of the Ordinance which mostly regulate conditions of service.
The challenge of Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray is based on the ground of a total non application of mind.
State of Tamil Nadu; , (2)
Learned counsel contends that this decision is of doubtful authority since the Court based its opinion on the majority judgment in Moti Ram Deka vs y,General Manager, North Frontier Railway(7), in which the Court was not called upon to consider and did not consider the validity of a rule of superannuation.
In this connection, the first ground of challenge to the reduction of the age of retirement is that the One man Pay Revision Commission appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh had recommended that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58, that the said recommendation was accepted by the State Government and consequently, the age of retirement was raised to 58 with effect from October 29, l 979.
604 The White Paper explains that in order to ensure that the employees who had retired by the end of February 1983 should get their pensionary benefits without delay, the Government had constituted a special Pension cell in the Finance Department, by a notification dated February 16, 1983.
Both can fall within the constraints of the Constitution and neither the one nor the other can be considered to be arbitrary or unreasonable.
The earlier decision to maintain the age of retirement at 55 was re affirmed but, in view of the widespread shortage of trained personnel, it was decided that extension of service beyond that age might be given liberally on the ground of public interest, more specially in the case of scientific and technical personnel.
If the policy adopted for the time being by the Government or the Legislature is shown to violate recognised norms of employment planning, it would be possible to say that the policy is irrational since, in that event, it would not bear reasonable nexus with the object which it seeks to achieve.
Governor of Andhra Pradesh promulgated Ordinance No. 5 of 1983 called 'the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Regulation of Conditions of Service) Ordinance. '
Shri R.K. Garg, who appears in a group of three Transferred Cases, contends that the Ordinance is bad because it supersedes all industrial adjudications and overrules even settlements arrived at between the management and the employees.
The relevant Fundamental Rules were amended by the first notification, while the corresponding rules of the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules were amended by the second notification.
It was held by this Court that the termination of service of an employee on account of his reaching the age of superannuation does not amount to his removal from service within the meaning of Article 311 (2).
By these notifications, every Government servant, whether ministerial or non ministerial but not belonging to the last Grade Service, who had already attained the age of 55 years was to retire from service with effect from February 28, 1983.
There are precedents within our country itself for fixing the retirements age at 55 or for reducing it from 58 to 55.
There will be no order as to costs.
In paragraph 15 of the Report, the Commission considered the effect of increasing the age of retirement on the employment situation and concluded that the likely repercussion of increasing the age of retirement on educated unemployment would not be substantial.
The Commission found that there was an overall improvement in public health as shown by the decline in death rate and the increase in expectancy of life at birth.
Government were thus able to create promotional avenues to serving employees at various levels and create opportunities for appointment against about 18,000 posts in Government, Panchayat Raj and aided educational institutions alone, not to speak of the opportunities that were created in the various Corporations etc, owned or controlled by Government.
This power is plenary within its field like the power of the State Legislature to pass laws and there are no limitations upon that power except those to which the legislative power of the State Legislature is subject Therefore, though an ordinance call be invalidated for contravention of the constitutional limitations which exist upon the power of the State Legislature to pass laws it cannot be declared invalid for the reason of non application of mind, any more than any other law can be.
Were this so, every decision taken by a new Government soon after assumption of office shall have to be regarded as arbitrary.
The argument of mala fides advanced by Shri A.T. Sampat, and adopted in passing by some of the other counsel, is without any basis.
That question was not within its purview.
We will presently set out the specific contentions advanced before us but, before doing so.
Shri Venugopal challenged the Ordinance on the ground that it is unreasonable.
The terms of reference of the Commission were enlarged by the Government by an order dated January 28, 1978 SO as to require the Commission to review the existing retirement benefits available to all categories of employees referred to above and to examine the question of extension of retirement benefits to the work charged establishments.
Now, when their turn for promotion has come at about the age of 55, they have been superannuated; (d)
Its reasons for passing a law are those that are stated in the Objects and Reasons and if no reasons are so stated, as appear from the provisions enacted by it.
thus notwithstanding the recommendation of the Varadachariar Commission, the age of superannuation laid down for the non ministerial staff more than 40 years earlier and for ministerial staff more than 20 years earlier, continued to be in force when the Second Central Pay Commission took up that question for examination.
The reasonableness of a decision, in any jurisdiction, does not depend upon the time which it takes.
It is true that in Moti Ram Deka, the Court was concerned to G (1) ; (2) [1955] 1 S.C.R.26.
Our attention was also drawn to the views expressed on "Employment Policy" in the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980 85).
On the very next day, that is, on April l0th
Indeed, the proposition that there ought to be an age of retirement in public services is widely accepted as reasonable and rational.
By G.O. Ms. No. 48 dated February 17, 1983 this proviso was deleted with retrospective effect from February 23, 1979.
Not the act of a Legislature.
The Commission recommended that the age of superannuation should be 58 for all classes of public servants including those for whom the retirement age then was 60.
The theory that reduction in the age of retirement provides employment opportunities to educated youths is fallacious.
Rules 1930, and under the Proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution.
Besides, the point made by Shri Tarkunde is concluded by a Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Bishun Narain Misra vs State of Uttar Pradesh (6)
But such is not the case here.
It is estimated that on an average there would be approximately 6,500 retirements each year from Government departments, Panchayat Raj Institutions and also Aided Institutions, where pensionary liability is borne by Government.
(See page 696 of the Report).
Rules of retirement do not take away the right of a person to his livelihood: they limit his right to hold office to a stated number of years.
Inevitably, the public administrator has to counter balance conflicting claims while determining the age of superannua 591 tion.
The argument could still be made that improvement in the expectation of life requires that the age of retirement should be fixed at 60 or 62 or even at 65.
These then are the main points in controversy on which counsel made their contentions.
Since the impugned policy is actuated and influenced predominatly by that consideration, it cannot be struck down as arbitrary or irrational.
Over 18,000 Government employees and 10,000 public sector employees were superannuated as a result of the order.
It assumed office on January 9, 1983.
We do not blame the Commission for this hurried and inadequate treatment of an important question.
These Transferred Cases will be delinked from the other Writ Petitions and will be listed for hearing later, so that they can be dealt with upon their own facts.
We regret to say that the Finance Minister was not properly briefed when he made that statement.
That is the area which permits free play in the joints.
Therefore, the speed with which the decision was taken cannot, without more, invalidate it on the ground of arbitrariness.
The fixation of age of retirement has minute and multifarious dimensions which shape the lives of citizens.
The various Pay Commissions have expressed the view that persons who are required to retire at 593 an early age are compelled by necessity to seek other employments.
Either the one or the other of these two stages is regarded generally as acceptable, depending upon the employment policy of the Government of the day.
Even assuming that the executive, in a given case, has an ulterior motive in moving a legislation, that motive cannot render the passing of the law mala fide.
608 sions of the Ordinance are, in any manner, arbitrary or unreasonable and thereby violate Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
We have already rejected the contention of haste and hurry as also the argument that the provi (1) ; at 282, 291.
Rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules is omitted by Clause l 8(ii) while Rule 231 of the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules is omitted by clause 19 of the Ordinance.
" This was an erroneous and unwarranted reading of the terms of reference.
On the other hand, the Ordinance shall have to be held valid, if the fundamental premise upon which it proceeds has been accepted as fair and reasonable in comparable situations, if its provisions bear nexus with public interest and if it does not offend against the constitutional limitations either on legis (l) E.P Rovappa.
Therefore, it is vital from the point of view of their well being that the question should be considered with the greatest objectivity and decided upon the basis of empirical data furnished by scientific investigation.
The rule was, accordingly, changed so as to make retirement at 55 the normal practice, and retention in service beyond that age the exception.
Consequently the resultant vacancies at the direct recruitment level which would have arisen in the chain of appointments that would follow each retirement, were also blocked for 3 years continuously, thereby denying the promotion opportunities to inservice personnel and employment opportunities for the unemployed causing a great deal of frustration all round.
The burden to establish ma/a fides is a heavy burden to discharge.
S.R. Petitions dismissed.
The affidavit is sworn by Shri A.K. Sharma, Deputy Secretary to Government of Andhra Pradesh.
After talking into account all the relevant considerations, including the fact that most Government servants themselves do not wish to continue in service until they are worn out and have "one foot in the grave", the Commission summed up its findings by saying that there was "much in favour of and very little against raising the age of superannuation".
The following table will show the variation in the retirement age which exists at present in the various States in India:
128 dated April 29, 1969.
The heading of that Chapter is ' Legislative Power of the Governor".
These claims involve considerations of varying vigour and applicability.
The inconvenience alleged by the petitioners in the matter of payment of their pension and other retirement benefits was imaginary, since the Government was making extensive arrangements to disburse such benefits expeditiously.
(3) ; (4) ; (5) [1958] S.C.R.1052.
Besides, we have to consider the validity of a law regulating the age of retirement.
1198 1217, 1302 12, 1314 15, 1566 1641, 1140 70, 2360 95, 1643 1725,2272 2329,2152,2332,2339,2491,3486 89, 2498 2521, 2522, .533 74,2611 2638 and 2531 of 1983.
There is no one fixed or focal point of reasonableness.
L.N. Sinha, Attorney General, Anil B. Divan,B. Parthasarthi and K.R. Chaudhary for the Respondents.
(2) 11982]1 S.C.R. 947 at 964, 967.
I S.C.R. 693.
(1) ; , 582 585.
This kind of 'transferred malice ' is unknown in the field of legislation.
1073 1100, 1117 19 1229 95, 142 1554, 1746 2140, 2155 2271, 2396 2459.
It was recognized that its actual effect would A be small but, importance was attached to its probable impact on public opinion.
Finance and Planning.
Government, therefore, decided to revise the age of superannuation from 58 years to 55 years so that the unemployed talented youth who were eagerly awaiting chances of appointment could get opportunities of employment.
Were it so, this Court would have declined to entertain pricing disputes covering as wide a range as cars to mustard oil.
Conversely, decisions which are taken promptly cannot be assumed to be bad because they are taken promptly.
Edited by Philips B. Kurland, Oxford and IBH Publisning Co., Page 13.
The aid and assistance of a well trained bureaucracy which, notoriously, plays an important part not only in the implementation of policies but in their making, was also available to the Government.
It was observed that Government service ages employees quicker and that, the question was one of balancing limited use to Government of such men against, perhaps, their better usefulness to the nation at large.
5266 5280 of 1983
Miss A. Subhashini for the Union.
Often, the Court has no satisfactory and effective means to decide which alternative, out of the many competing ones, is the best in the circumstances of a given case.
Delegation Rules 1926, the Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal)
Every decision has to examined on its own merits in order to determine whether it is arbitrary or unreasonable.
The age of retirement was previously governed by these two Rules.
