The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary, uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article, ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
Therefore, in our view the objective, the policy and the Scheme of the Act together with the necessity to ensure prevention of circumvention of the other provisions of the Act afford more than sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising the power of discretion conferred on him under sec.
We approve the view taken in those cases As regards the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court in Harakchand Banthia 's case (supra) while declaring unamended sec.
In these 11 appeals only that part of the judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court is assailed by the Union of India where the challenge to the validity of section 28 of the Gold Control Act, 1968 has succeeded.
No such vague or indefinite expressions or concepts are to be found in sec.
28 by reference to which the Administrator is required to exercise his power.
27(6) this Court struck down sec.
It is also clear that the restrictions which have been imposed in sec.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus: "28.
The main object in putting the Act on the Statute Book as indicated by its long title is "to provide, in the economic and financial interests of the community, for the control of the production, manufacture, supply, distribution, use and possession of, and business in, gold ornaments and articles of gold and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. "
It cannot be disputed that sec.
The appeal succeeds but since the respondents have not appeared there will be no order as to costs.
Money lending business not to be carried on in licensed premises No licensed dealer shall unless authorised by the Administrator so to do, (a) carry on business as a money lender or banker on the security of any article, or ornament, or both, (b) permit any other person to carry on money lending, banking or any other business, in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer. "
26 of 1969, constitutionally invalid on the ground of conferal of a very wide and vague power upon the Administrator to grant or renew a license to a dealer.
It is true that no express rule prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the permission can be granted or refused (1) 955 has been framed nor any particular guide line has been expressly indicated in sec.
(e) and 'public interest ' in cl.
27(6) of the Act, as it stood prior to its amendment by the Amending Act No.
D.K. Sen, Gopal Subramonium and R.N. Poddar for the Appellant.
Civil Appeals Nos. 1264 67/71 etc.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by TULZAPURKAR, J.
3956, 3971, 3983, 3899, 4421, 4474, 4537, 4544, 4570, 4825 and 4933/68.
Having regard to this position which obtains in the case sec.
Ex parte for the Respondents.
S.R. Appeal allowed.
27(6) in several of its clauses referred to certain concepts which Administrator was required to take into account, and these concepts were regarded as indefinite, uncertain and vague.
In fact, sec.
In the absence of parity of situation or circumstances the doctrine of parity of reasoning cannot be invoked.
Further, the section does not provide nor is any rule brought to our notice which enjoins upon the Administrator to give a hearing to dealer who seeks permission under this Section and give reasons in case he decides to refuse the permission.
We may indicate that the same provision (section 28) was challenged before the Patna High Court in Bihar State Bullion Merchants ' Association vs Union of lndia(1) and the Gujarat High Court in Ramanlal Purshottamamdas Chokshi vs Union of India & Others (2) and these High Courts have upheld its validity.
27(6) of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
957 'suitability of the applicant ' in cl.
Moreover, regard must be had to be the nature of the restrictions imposed by the Section.
From the Judgment and Order dated 26.12.69 of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad in W.P. Nos.
In Harakchand Banthria 's case (supra) this Court has further pointed out that even though import of gold into India had been banned considerable quantities of contraband gold were finding their way into the country through illegal channels affecting the national economy and hampering the country 's economic stability and progress, that the Customs Department was not in a position to effectively combat the smuggling over the long borders and coast line, that therefore anti smuggling measures had to be supplemented by a detailed system of control over internal transactions and that the Gold (Control) Act, 1968 was passed for this purpose.
