The Judgment of the Court was delivered by 308 PATHAK, J. : These references under s.27(1) of the have been made by the Income Tax Appellate tribunal, Cuttack Bench at the instance of the Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Orissa for the opinion of this Court on the following question of law: "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Wealth Tax Officer was in law justified in including in the net wealth of the assessee interest due on accrual basis (though not realised) on the outstandings of the money lending business, the accounts of the assessee being maintained on cash basis ?"
of all the assets" belonging to the assessee on the valuation date.
Clause (q) of s 2 defines the expression "valuation date" as follows: ; "(q) Valuation date, in relation to any year for which an assessment is to be made under this Act, means the last day of the previous year as defined in (Section 3) of the Income Tax Act, if an assessment were to be made under that Act for that year;
I vs Pachigolla Narasimha Rao(1) and the Calcutta High Court in Dipti Kumar Basu vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, West Bengal(2) and hold that the view taken by the Orissa High Court in Commissioner of Wealth tax vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju (Orissa) (supra) and by the Karnataka High Court in A. T. Mirji vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Karnataka(3) cannot be accepted.
1,50,000 estimated as the accrued interest on the assessee 's money lending investments.
In other words, it would be the estimated open market value of the rights in the property which constitute the asset.
That appears plainly from the definition or "net wealth" which speaks of "the aggregate value.
There is clear indication that the assets to be considered are not circumscribed by any consideration of the particular system of accounting adopted by the assessee.
His financial activities during that period determine how his net wealth on a particular valuation date differs from his net wealth on the immediately preceding valuation date.
In each of the assessments, the Wealth Tax Officer included a sum of Rs.
There is an obvious advantage in adopting as the valuation date the last day of a period which is also the relevant period under the Income Tax Act.
C.S.S. Rao for the Respondent.
The contention found favour with the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, and accordingly he deleted the additions of Rs.
The expression "net wealth" is defined by cl.
The question can be disposed of shortly.
There is no order as to costs.
The respondent assessee was assessed to wealth tax for the assessment years 1965 66, 1966 67 and 1967 68 (the respective valuation dates being March 31, 1965, March 31, 1966 and March 31, 1967), in the status of a 'Hindu Undivided Family.
The assets are not confined to cash.
In this view of the matter, we approve of the opinion expressed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedrevu Venkappa Rao (supra) 311 and in Commissioner of Wealth Tax, A.P.
Tax Reference Cases Nos. 3 to 5 of 1975 Tax Reference under Section 257 of the Income tax Act, 1961 made by the Income tax Appellate Tribunal, Cuttack Bench, Cuttack P.A. Francis, Champat Rai and Miss A. Subhashini for the Appellant.
The figure of net wealth of the assessee at the end of the "previous year" takes into account the financial activities of the assessee during that "previous year".
