Since the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court have failed to consider the merits of the claims of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation and the private operators who did not get a certificate of approval from the Central Government, because of the rule of preference contained in proviso to section 63(7), the proper course for us is to set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and to direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to re hear the appeals and dispose them of in accordance with law, after considering the claims of the eligible applicants in the manner indicated in Sher Singh 's case and now.
Clauses (i) to (iii) of the proviso providing for preference to be given to applications for permits from the Indian Tourism Development Corporation, the State Tourism Development Corporation and the State Tourist Department were not questioned, but the preference provided for by clause (iv) and to be given to "such operators of tourist cars, or such travel agents, as may be approved in this behalf by the Ministry dealing in tourism" was questioned as an infringement of article 14 of the Constitution.
Section 68 F(1) prescribes that where, in pursuance of an approved scheme, a State Transport Undertaking applies for a stage carriage permit, a contract carriage permit or a public carrier 's permit in respect of a notified area or notified route, such permit shall be granted to the State Transport Undertaking by the State Transport Authority in a case where the said area or route lies in more than one region and the Regional Transport Authority in any other case.
The proviso to section 47(1) for example, provides that other conditions being equal, an application for a stage carriage permit from a cooperative society or a person holding a valid licence for driving transport vehicles shall as far as may be, be given preference over applications from individual owners.
The reference to Chapter IV
A "public service vehicle" is defined in section 2(25) as "any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward, and includes a motor cab, contract carriage, and stage carriage".
We are concerned in these appeals with the vires and interpretation of this proviso.
It was on that ground again, it was so stated by the Tribunal, that some of the appellants 1012 before the Tribunal had to be denied the grant of permits though
Though the permits to be granted are for tourist vehicles, the preference is confined to operators of tourist cars and travel agents.
While it is true that section 47(1 H) does not expressly refer to "other things being equal", it appears to be implicit in the provision that other things are equal.
In exercise of its powers under section 63(7) of the , the Central Government specified 50 as the number of 'All India Tourist Vehicle Permits ' which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
Sections 46, 47 and 48 deal with the grant of stage carriage permits.
Shri Shanti Bhushan, learned counsel for the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, Dr. Chitley, learned counsel for some of the private operators, Shri Datar, learned counsel for the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation,
The writ petitions were rejected by the High Court on the ground that the preference contemplated by the proviso to section 63(7) contemplated exclusion of the 'non preferred ' class if sufficient number of applicants from the preferred classes were available.
47, the application of the Undertaking for an inter State route shall be examined as application of any other private operator.
Would this statutory provision violate equality guaranteed by article 14?
That is how section 47(1 H) was interpreted in Sher Singh 's case.
It is difficult to agree with the interpretation of the Karnataka High Court having regard to the definitions of "Transport Vehicle" and "motor car" contained in section 2(29 A) and section 2(16) respectively.
Section 47(1 C) enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
It was said that the clause contained sufficient guidelines for the exercise of discretion in granting approval by the Central Government.
From the Judgment and Order dated 10.3.1986 of the Karnataka High Court in W.P. Nos.
63(7) of the .
It is seen that the scheme excludes omnibus operators and requires applicants to have 1019 either two years ' experience in the car hire business with contacts in the tourist business or to own five tourist taxies.
There is no question of eliminating private operators merely because the Undertaking applies for a stage carriage permit under Chapter IV.
Section 57 deals, generally with the procedure to be followed in applying for and granting permits.
It signifies that other things being equal, 1016 one will have preference over the others.
The State Transport Authority, by its proceedings dated April 30, 1984, granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation, one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
P.S.S. Appeals allowed.
" Chapter IV, sections 42 to 68, deals with "Control of Transport vehicles".
