In this case there were grounds for the passing of the detention order but after that the detenu has surrendered for whatever reasons, therefore the order of detention though justified when it was passed but at the time of the service of the order there was no proper consideration of the fact that the detenu was in custody of that there was any real danger of his release.
5/83 has already been submitted in this case.
The petitioner/ appellant was in detention when the petitioner/appellant was served with the order of detention.
Jogta P.S. Case No.
317 of 1986 arises out of the judgment and order of the High Court of Patna and the Writ Petition No. 316 is in respect of the same detenu.
The grounds stated that there was indiscriminate firing on 24th December, 1985 on Katras Coal Dump and the petitioner started indiscriminate firing to kill Birendra Pratap Singh a rival of his calendestine business of coal to establish the criminal superiority in full view of the shopkeepers, customers and passers by of the area.
If, however, the detenu is released on bail in the aforesaid criminal cases, the matter of service of the detention order under the Act on the aforesaid materials may be reconsidered by the appropriate authority in accordance with the law.
KATRAS P.S. CASE
N: Criminal Appeal No.
331/85 dated 24.12.85 u/s 149/307/32 IPC/27 Arms Act.
On or about 2nd January, 1985 the order of detention was passed on an incident relating to the exchange of fire between two rival groups.
Charge sheet No.
In this case subject and his associates tried to set free 908 the trucks and driver from the police custody by force and when he failed in his attempt he threatened the police officer and CISF Personnel to do away with their lives, C.S.No.
There is a statement in the order as follows D "Subject is already in jail.
In the affidavit of the District Magistrate, the detaining authority, it has been stated that the activities of the petitioner 's brother and the petitioner have disturbed the normal tempo of life in Katras and Jogta Police Stations in Dhanbad area.
Crl A. 353/86 with W.P. (crl) 27/86 dt.
The petitioner/appellant states that he desired that he should be heard in person by the Advisory Board.
The writ petition and the appeal are allowed to the extent indicated above.
There were criminal cases against the petitioner.
His representation, was duly considered and rejected.
The order of detention though dated 2nd January, 1986 was served on or about 11th January, 1986.
All the documents which formed the basis of detention were supplied to the detenu.
If there were cogent materials for thinking that the detenu might be released then these should have been made apparent.
No. 5/83 dated 3.1.83 u/s 147, 341/353/307 I.P.C.
In the said case investigation was in progress and the defence of the petitioner in the murder case was that he was falsely implicated and was not at all concerned with the murder.
As a result of this firing one innocent namely Brahamdeo Mishra was killed.
Nor does it appear that before the service there was consideration of this aspect properly.
Sri Sisir Rajan Das, however, acceded to their request and started dancing.
In this case subject and his associates opened fire on police party who went to apprehend Raghunath Singh absconder under NSA.
If a man is in custody and there is no imminent possibility of his being released, the power of preventive detention should not be exercised.
He is likely to be enlarged on bail.
