(4) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs.67,560/ (5) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal right ly held that the sum of Rs.67,560/12/ was rightly included in the net wealth of the assessee?
It was held by the Bombay High Court that there was no valid gift.
Reference may also be made for this proposition to the decision of the Delhi High Court in New India Colour Co. vs Commissioner of Income:Tax, New Delhi, The effect of the two aforesaid decisions of the learned fudges of the Delhi High Court indicates that in case there was not sufficient cash balance from out of which the amount gifted could be physically given to the donee, more entries in the books of account in the form would not constitute delivery of possession over the gifted property to the donee and gift in such case will not be valid.
On the same day i.e. on ist January, 1957, Om Parkash Gupta wrote to the assessee, his father, thanking him for the gift of Rs.25,000 made in his favour and the gift of Rs.50,000 in favour of his son Pravin.
The Allahabad High Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax, U.P.v.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities, even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms, gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
Such delivery may be in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
50,000 By that letter the assessee had directed the Company to debit his account to the extent of Rs.
Om Prakash Gupta .
It was held that the gift was not valid.
The assessee claimed to have gifted the said amounts by transfer entries in the books of M/s Pearls & Beads on 30th March, 1957.
Balance of the firm was only Rs. 15.
It is possible in certain circumstances for a donor to make a valid gift by instructing a firm or a company or a H.U.F. in which the donor has an account to give effect to the gift by debiting his account and crediting the account in the name of the donee.
1,50,000 was validly gifted by him to his sons and grand sons and hence the amounts had been wrongly included in his net wealth by the Income Tax Officer and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
But in that case, the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
1,50,000 on 1.1. 1957?
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI, J. The appeal under section 29(1) of the (hereinafter called the Act) is directed against the judgment and order of the High Court of Allahabad dated 6th of January 1971.
Interest on the amounts was also credited in the accounts regularly for some time, until a bank from which C had obtained an overdraft objected to such crediting of interest.
Section 123 of the said Act deals with how transfers are effected and stipulates, inter alia, that for the purpose of making a gift of movable property as in this case, the transfer must be effected either by a registered instrument signed by the donor and attested or by delivery.
There the assessee was the karta of a Hindu undivided family.
Separate accounts in their names were opened in the books and in their accounts the credits were entered.
On 20th November, 1956, the assessee purported to transfer Rs.50,000 from his account to the account of his son.
In order to constitute a valid gift there must be an existing property.
Shyamo Bibi, had to deal with a case where the credit balance of 2 1/2 lakhs was with the firm.
The asses see, Dr. R.S. Gupta had maintained an account in the books of Messrs. Tika Ram and Sons Pvt.
Where moneys were actually paid by way of interest on the alleged gifts, those became completed gifts.
Aggrieved by the said decision, the revenue has come up in appeal.
3,4 and 5 were answered in the negative.
As the respondent is not appearing, there will be no order as to costs.
But it appears that it was admitted position that Tika Ram & Sons had a cash balance of Rs.4000 only on 1.1.1957 and it did not have any overdraft facilities with any bank.
It was also stated to be carrying on business of advancing money and taking money on loan when necessary.
The Tribunal held that section 10 of the was not attracted and the sum of Rs.
The assessee must also have sufficient credit balance to enable him to make the gift.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax, Burma, held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
There, M, the deceased, was a 132 partner in a firm having a half share in the partnership.
Appeal No. 1713(NT) of 1973.
But in such cases 127 merely books entries would not suffice.
This question has been examined by the various High Courts.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
No acceptance was produced.
The Madras High Court had also taken divergent views.
The decision of the Privy Council is reported in ILR 1944 at page 617.
See also the cases of Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay City H vs Popatlal Mulji, and also in the case of Addl.
He had large assets but these were represented by land, buildings, plant, machinery and stock in trade.
Memo of gift recorded on stamp paper.
Section 33 of the Sale of goods Act permitted the parties to deliver by any manner or method which the parties agreed would be treated as delivery or which had the effect of putting the goods in the possession of the buyer.
contractors and brick kiln owners.
In Commissioner of Wealth Tax vs Gulab Rai Govind Pra sad, there was an alleged gift of Rs.2 lakhs to minor son by book entries.
