We cannot do so in the face of the assurance of the Chief Minister that facilities would be provided for the Zoo and if, as the saying goes, the proof of the pudding is in the eating, the Chief Minister 's assurances are found reflected in the lease executed by the Taj Group of Hotels in favour of the Government of West Bengal.
We have no doubt that the Government was quite alive to the need for expan sion of the zoo when they decided to grant four acres of Begumbari land which was not used for the main purpose of the zoo for the construction of a Five Star hotel.
The records were before the High Court and there are now before us two copies of a letter written on July 7, 1880 by the Assistant Secretary to the Government of Bengal in the Public Works Department to Mr. L. Schwandler, Honorary Secretary, Zoological Garden conveying to him the sanction of the Lt. Governor for the transfer of the land to the east of Belvedere Road, known as Begumbari land to the charge of the Committee of the Zoolog ical Garden on the terms agreed to by the Committee in their letter dated April 23rd.
It was suggested that the Hastings House Property may be leased to the I.T.D.C. Group and the Begumbari property to the Taj Group of Hotels.
That is this.
It was also said that if the hospital and the burial ground were to be shifted to the main garden it would result in an unhealthy atmosphere for the animals and the zoo and would detract from the beauty of the Zoo Garden.
Much of the argument on this question was based on the assumption that the decision to lease the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels was taken on February 12, 1981.
As agreed by the said company during the various meetings its representatives had with various departments of this Government, the company will either place the necessary fund in the hands of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department or the Zoo Garden authorities as the case may be, for reconstruction of the aforesaid essential structures or reconstruction the aforesaid essential structures under its own supervision to the satisfaction of the the Zoo Garden authorities or Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department as the case may be, such funds will in either case be advanced or deemed to be advanced by the Company without interest to 251 be adjusted against dues of the State Govern ment in accordance with the terms and condi tions of the lease.
It was not so.
It is out of these eight acres that the land of the extent of four acres has been carved out and given to the Taj Group of Hotels for the construction of a Five Star Hotel.
The Minister for Metropolitan Development submitted a note to the Chief Minister on the resolution of the Managing Committee of the Zoo.
But perhaps it is because the red man is a savage and does not understand.
He will be our father and we will be his children.
It is obvious that, in view of this policy, no resin would be auctioned by the State and there would be no question of sale of resin in the open market and in this situation, it would be totally irrelevant to import the concept of market price with reference to which the adequacy of the price charged by the State to the second respondents could be judged.
In the result, the judgments of the learned single judge and the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court are affirmed and the appeal is dismissed.
In taking a decision to take away the land from the Zoo and to lease the same to the Taj Group of Hotels, relevant considerations had been ignored and irrelevant considerations had been taken into account.
A reference was also made to the report of Public Undertakings Committee.
If we sell you our land, you must remember, and teach your children, that the rivers are our brothers, and yours and you must henceforth give the kindness you would give any brother.
In this letter, the Chief Minister pointed out that there were already in existence a number of multistoreyed buildings all around the Zoological Garden, but there was no report that they had any adverse effect on the migratory birds or the animals.
We do not think that the provisions of the Bengal Public Parks Act have any relevance to the question of the power of the Government to transfer the Begumbari land to the Taj Group of Hotels.
The 'nett sales ' method appears to be a fairly well known method adopted in similar situations.
One of the methods of securing the public interest, when it is considered necessary to dispose of a property, is to sell the property by public auction or by inviting tenders.
"Whatever befalls the earth befalls the sons of the earth.
"So we will consider your offer to buy our land.
He further mentioned that the grounds of the Zoo between the lake and the Belve dere Road were covered with tall trees and that the birds negotiating the trees would have to fly at the steeper angle than it would be necessary to negotiate the proposed hotel.
The learned counsel for the appellants urged that the second Cabinet Memorandum dated September 9, 1981 on which date the Government took the final decision to grant the lease made no mention of the needs and interests of the Zoo or the facilities provided in the Begumbari land for the Zoo.
Such as those as were really interested in the matter like the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden and the Director of the Zoo did have their say in the matter.
The available facilities were mentioned as Staff quarters, hospital for animals, burial ground for animals, fodder for elephants etc.
The hotel was porposed to be built away from the frontage of the plot in Belvedere Road and was to be a low rise structure, the highest point of which would not exceed 75 feet.
He is the God of man, and His compassion is equal for the red man and the white.
We do not have the original grant before us.
Therefore, it is clear that it was not forgotten that if the land was to be allotted to the Taj Group, separate provision would have to be made for whatever use the land was being put to them.
That Oarnivors are not to be kept on any part of it, on any account.
Did the Act deal with the land at all?
He mentioned that Dr. Biswas, a renowned ornithologist had also been consulted by the Taj Management and he had also confirmed that a 75 feet building would not interfere with the landing or climb ing out of the birds from the lake.
The subject which was discussed by the Expert Committee on September 25, 1981 was "Construction of a Five Star Hotel within the premises of Alipore Zoo in Calcutta.
Public interest litigation has now come to stay.
The terms of the lease were not to the financial disadvantage of the Government.
All things are connected.
but in a case like this where the State is allo cating resources such as water, power raw materials etc. for the purpose of encouraging setting up of industries within the State, we do not think the State is bound to advertise and tell the people that it wants a particular industry to be set up within the State and invite those interested to come up with pro posals for the purpose.
On August 30, 1982, Shri J.R.D. Tata wrote to the Prime Minister pointing out that their Hotel management had discussed the matter at length with represen tatives of the Wild Life fund who were satisfied that the proposed hotel would cause no disturbance to the birds.
Originally the writ petition was filed by five persons.
We have already pointed out that relevant considerations were not ignored and, indeed, were taken into account by the Government of West Bengal.
In fact, as we have seen, the matter had been considered and approved by the Cabinet itself and all Departments must necessarily have been appraised of the proposal.
Dr. L.M. Singhvi, learned counsel for the appellants made the following submission before us; The Begumbari land was statutorily vested in the Managing Committee of the Zoological Garden and that the Committee could not be di vested by an executive decision without proper procedure being followed.
If further facilities are necessary for the Zoo, the Government will provide them.
" On June 29, 1981, the Director of the Zoo wrote to the Secretary of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department stating his objections to the Proposal to lease the land for construction of a hotel.
This has been mentioned in the various notings made from time to time.
Yet no one except the I.T.D.C. and the Taj Group of Hotels had come forward with any proposal.
The matter was taken in appeal.
The learned 267 counsel invited our attention to several decisions of the court: Rash Bihari Panda vs State of Orissa, ; ; R.D. Shetty vs International Airport Authority, ; ; Kasturi Lal Laxmi Reddy vs State of Jammu & Kashmir, ; ; State of Haryana vs Jage Ram, ; Ram & Shyam Co. vs State of Haryana, and Chenchu Rami Reddy vs Government of Andhra Pradesh, [1986] 3 SCC 391.
"I am a savage and I do not understand any other way.
Every part of the earth is sacred to my people.
If four acres of land were given, he expressed the apprehension that the hospital and the dumping ground would have to be moved elsewhere.
"We know that the white man does not understand our ways.
This eight acre plot of land is known as the Begumbari land.
The Zoological Garden, Alipore was one such park.
" The observations of the Court in the light of the facts therein appear to fully justify the action of the West Bengal Government in the present case not inviting tenders or not holding public auction.
Fodder for elephants should not again be considered to be problem.
The question of the migratory birds was first raised in the resolution of the Managing Committee dated June 11, 1981.
Whatever he does to the web he does to himself.
The reasons given by him have already been extracted earlier by us from his letter.
But the socialist or if that word is jarring to some, the community or further the public property has to be dealt with for public purpose and in public inter est.
The Chief Town Planner who was deputed to visit the site at the request of the Secretary, Metropolitan Development Department and who visited the Zoo accompanied by the Director of the Zoo reported that 2 to 21/2 acres of land might be made avail able for the hotel.
The appellants failed before the learned Trial Judge on all the points raised by them.
"What is man without the beasts?
At that stage, the Government of West Bengal appeared to have been on the search for two suitable plots of land which could be offered, one to the I.T.D.C. and the other to the Taj Group of Hotels for the construction of Five Star Hotels.
We may be brothers after all.
The Managing Com mittee of the Zoo also initially expressed its opposition to the proposal to construction hotel on land belonging to the Zoo.
That procedure had to be observed.
From the Preamble and the provisions of the Act, it is clear that the Act is intended to protect the inmates and the property of the park from injury by persons resorting to the park and to protect persons resorting to the park from molestation or annoyance by others.
The area proposed to be taken for Hotel construction is already used by the zoo for fodder cultivation, burial ground for dead animals, animal hospital, operation theater, quarantine area, segrega tion wards, postmortem room and nursery both for zoo animals and horticultural section.
Among other things the report also suggested various financial alterna tives and recommended the second alternative based on nett sales as the best.
We do not agree with the submission of Dr. Singhvi.
It was about 700 feet from the main part of the lake.
We may refer here to the resolution of the Wild Life Board to which a reference was made by the Prime Minister in her letter to the Chief Minister.
On September 9, 1981 a detailed memorandum was prepared for cabinet discussion.
It is not one of those cases where the evidence is first gathered and a decision is later arrived at one fine morning and the deci sion is incorporated in a reasoned order.
The calculation handed over has no bearing to the facts of this case at all.
The Government or the Board may have the power the amend these orders and instruc tions, but nonetheless they must be obeyed so long as they are in force and are applicable.
It was stated that though the Forest Department had suggest ed that Salt Lake was a better place for establishing a Five Star Hotel, there was no demand for a Five Star Hotel in that area and the request for a hotel in Salt Lake was confined to a Three Star Hotel.
However, before this Court there are only two petitioners, the 1st and the 2nd in the writ petition.
One of the terms was that the land should be restored to the Government whenever required.
On January 7, 1982, there was a joint meeting of the Establishment and Finance sub committees of the Zoo and it was decided to recommend to the Committee of management that the demarcated area of four acres may be relinquished in favour of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Department subject to the requirement that the Zoo will continue to get the services and facilities in the existing structures until they were reconstructed on the adjacent land.
He had again gone thoroughly into the project with special reference to its possible impact on the birds or environment and had also visited Calcutta in that connection.
If the State were simply selling resin, there can be no doubt that the State must endeavour to obtain the highest price subject, of course, to any other over riding considerations of public interest and in that event, its action in giving resin to a private individual at a lesser price would be arbitrary and contrary to public interest.
The Zoological Garden Committee being reimbursed for any expenditure they may have incurred in building there."
He also pointed out that all precautions would be taken in the matter of illumination of the hotel and lay out of the surroundings so that no disturbance would be caused to the flight path of the birds or animals.
Here, we do not have a case, again, sale of a Government property.
We find it difficult to treat this decision to negotiate with the Taj Group in regard to construction of a Five Star Hotel on the Begumbari land as a final decision to part with the land.
The West Bengal Land Management Manual, 1977 is pub lished under the authority of the Board of Revenue, West Bengal.
The Government had already in mind a proposal to start a subsidiary Zoo in an extent of about 200 acres of land in the outskirts of Calcutta.
I No. 1, June 1984.
It has also been proposed to shift the burial ground elsewhere.
On September 1, 1982, Smt.
Negotiations with the I.T.D.C. did not fructify while negotiations with the Taj Group of Hotels fruitioned.
In appropriate cases, the Court may go further, but how much further must depend on the circum stances of the case.
He pointed out that the four acre plot was not within the main Zoological Garden, but was separated from it by the Belvedere Road which was an important thoroughfare in the city.
We shall see.
They expressly refer to it in their report dated February 14, 1981 made two days after the Cabinet decision.
It was the suggestion for the All India Tourism Conference presided over by the Union Minister for Tourism that State Government should make plots in good locations available at concession al rates for construction of hotels in order to promote the Tourist Industry.
It is immaterial whether the move come first from the Government or from the Taj Group.
They have given all the assurances necessary to preserve the Zoo and its inmates.
We are told that a total sum of Rs.
The learned counsel for the Taj Group made available to us, the method adopted.
"If we do not own the freshness of the air and the sparkle of the water, how can you buy them?
They were Shri Pushp Kumar, Director of the Hyderabad Zoo and Mrs. Anne Wright.
On a consideration of the relevant cases cited at the bar the following propositions may be taken as well estab lished.
Where is the eagle?
It would be impossible, according to the Committee to accommodate these essential services within the campus of the main Zoo.
Such cases are now filed without any rhyme or reason.
The earth is not his brother but his enemy, and when he has conquered it, he moves on.
A deal like this cannot be concluded by public auction.
" It was stated that the Finance and Tourism Department had agreed to the proposal to lease the properties to the I.T.D.C. and the Taj Group respectively.
The same five persons figured as appellants before the Division Bench.
The Committee 's objections were two fold: (1)
The Chief Minister further drew the attention of the Prime Minister to the fact that the hotel was likely to be a six storeyed one and would not be the only tail building near the Zoo.
The Court cannot lightly assume that the action taken by the Government is unreasonable or without public interest because, as we said above, there are a large number of policy considerations which must necessarily weigh with the Government in taking action and therefore the Court would not strike down governmental action as invalid on this ground, unless it is clearly satisfied that the action is unreasonable or not in public interest.
For the purpose of this case, we will accept the assertion of the first appellant.
" The Act was made applicable to the public parks and gardens mentioned in the schedule.
"The rivers are our brothers, they quench our thirst.
If the proposed hotel is set up, all the existing buildings, viz.
A welfare State as the owner of the public property has no such freedom while disposing of the public property.
The Great Chief sends word he will reserve us a place so that we can live comfortably to ourselves.
It is wrong to think that everything that is not mentioned in the Cabinet Memo randa did not receive consideration by the Government.
It could only be done by negotiation between the persons coming forward with proposals to estab lish Five Star Hotels.
This was passed by the majority of the members present, the President Justice Shri R.K. Banerjee dissenting.
An affidavit to that effect was also filed before the trial court.
They must be above suspicious.
The Finance Depart ment also approved.
It was not a decision, if it was one, on which any right could be hung.
The WEBCON submitted further reports.
Petitioner No. 2 & 3 are the life members of the Zoo and the remaining two, bona fide residents of Greater Calcutta and lovers of wild life.
We may also note here a point made by Dr. Biswas in his letter to the Statesman that there were possible health hazards in the re location of the Zoo hospital, quarantine area and post mortem room in the area adjacent to the staff quarters.
It is said that approximate ly 1,000 bird and animal species are facing extinction at present.
But where disposal is for aug mentation of revenue and nothing else, the State is under an obligation to secure the best market price available in a market econo my.
There is infact no provision which deals with the vesting of property in a park.
For each such victory nature takes its revenge on us.
But this does not mean that the doors of this Court are always open for anyone to walk in.
"As regards the objection that arise from the hotel itself from vehicular traffic to and from the hotel would disturb the birds, the hotel will be totally airconditioned so that no noise will emanate from it, while noise from the heavy traffic on Belvedere Road does not seem to have bothered the birds upto now.
If courts do not restrict the free flow of such cases in the name of Public Interest Litigations, the tradi tional litigation will suffer and the courts of law, instead of dispensing justice, will have to take upon themselves administrative and executive functions.
Obviously, one place is not as good as another and the place has to be carefully chosen.
In their writ petition or in course of their submissions before us the appellants did not try to make out a case of personal malice against the State Government or its Ministers and Civil Servants . .
In May, 1980 the Taj Group of Hotels came forward with a suggestion that they would be able to construct a Five Star Hotel if any of three properties on Chowringhee, specified by them, was made available to them.
The note also pointed out that immediate transfer of the four acre plot of land would mean discontinuance of existing hospital facilities, research laboratory, operation theatre, segregation wards, quarantine facilities etc.
20 lakhs when there were people ready to purchase the land for Rs. 80 lakhs.
It appears to have been taken openly with no attempt at secrecy.
The Chief Minis ter also mentioned that there appeared to be some misconcep tion that the plot in question was a part of the Zoo Garden.
But what is the position here?
This was also the recommendation of the Committee of Secretaries who went into the matter in depth.
The State Government has produced before me the original files, including those containing the notes and Cabinet Memorandum for my inspection, the facts which I shall set out herein are gathered from these records and files produced before me, though most of them do not find place in the affidavits . . .
Pursuant to the letter dated January 15, 1982 possession was given to Taj Group on January 16, 1982.
The Court held that the right to make offers being open to a limited class of persons, it effectively shut out all other persons carrying on trade in Kendu leaves and also new entrants into that business.
Regarding the commercial and financial aspects of the lease also there is nothing secretive though they came in for sharp criticism at the hands of the appellants before us.
This preliminary objection of the Hotel Group was rejected.
280 I conclude this short Judgment, with a lurking doubt in my mind, and with a question "Is there something more than what meets the eye in this case?"
They have suffered sufficient loss and the Govt. will also suffer loss.
Six long years have passed by.
We may now proceed to examine the facts of the present case.
It will be necessary and in any case advisable to shift the dumping ground, while ade quate space can be made available for growing grass else where in the same area.
The writ petition was therefore, amended and a prayer for cancellation of the lease deed was added.
the welfare State may be able to expand its beneficial activities by the avail ability of larger funds.
It is the first ever and the most under standing statement on environment.
We have no evidence or any immediate or subsequent public protest but there were certain objections from some circles.
Nothing should be done which gives an appear ance of bias.
Teach your children what we have taught our children, that the earth if sun mother.
There is in Calcutta a zoological garden located in Allipore, now almost the heart of Calcutta, on either side of Belvedere Road, one of Calcutta 's main arterial roads, fortynine acres on one side and eight acres on the other.
The calculation given to us so far as its arithmetic is con cerned is correct.
The appellants invited our attention to paragraphs 165, 166 and 167 of the Land Management Manual and urged that the rules laid down by the provisions have been ignored by the Government of West Bengal.
320 per quintal under the impugned order.
The terms and conditions of the lease were set out.
In addition to this, they surrendered an area of 288 sq.
You cannot scratch a painting and not diminish its beauty.
The International Association for the Protection of Nature and Natural Re sources calculates that now, on an average, one species or sub species is lost every year.
Indira Gandhi 254 wrote to Mr. Tata expressing her happiness that the Hotel was not going to upset the Zoo animals and welcoming his offer to help the State Government to improve the Zoo 's facilities.
The Government was not unmindful of the interests and requirements of the Zoologi cal Garden though at that stage no detailed investigations had 257 apparently been made.
He was satisfied that the project could not possibly disturb birds using the lake or interfere with their free movement.
Two alternative financial arrangements were suggested.
Owner of private property may deal with it in any manner he likes without causing injury to any one else.
In Kasturilal Lakshmi Reddy vs State of Jammu and Kash mir (supra), Bhagwati, J. again, speaking for the Court reiterated what had said earlier in R.D. Shetty vs Interna tional Airport Authority (supra).
There may be situations where there are compelling reasons necessitating departure from the rule
Meanwhile, it appeared that the Public Undertakings Committee appointed by the West Bengal Legislative Assembly submitted a port on February 14, 1981 about the zoo in which they stated. "
After an exhaustive discus sion of the various aspects of the case, the learned Trial Judge dismissed the petition.
All these are arranged in such a manner that reference to them by the officials of the Revenue hierarchy is easy.
The end of living and the beginning of survival.
In pursuing the socio economic objective is the State bound to 268 invite tenders or held a public auction?
"The white man 's dead forget the country of their birth when they go to walk among the stars.
By Twen ty first February it was public knowledge and news of the proposal was published in the daily newspapers.
If a stay is granted, similar situation will fol low. "
There were already a large number of high rise residential buildings around the Zoo.
We must straightaway say that no objection was taken either before the single judge or before the Division Bench either to the authenticity or to the admissi bility of the documents.
That was a case where land belonging to a Math was sold by private trenty for Rs.
The Alipore Zoological Garden authorities were required to vacate the existing structure within a period of six months which was also the period stipulated for raising the new constructions.
The question to be answered is whether this accusation can be justified.
It is impossible to agree with the submission that there was any failure to observe principles of Natural Justice.
The wind that gave our grandfather his first breath also receives the last sigh.
The once Imperial City of Calcutta is.no exception.
In this case, ultimately the hearing was not confined only in respect of the mate rials specified .in
Several factors have to be independently and separately weighed and considered.
So the practical problems of the Zoo did not receive detailed consideration earlier.
Stress was laid on the direct and indirect economic activities which would be generated by the establishment of a Five Star Hotel.
In India, as elsewhere in the world, uncontrolled growth and the consequent environmental deterioration are fast assuming menacing proportions and all Indian cities are afflicted with this problem.
It contains five small structures 253 including a cage and a small veterinary labo ratory or dispensary.
In the meanwhile, WEBCON, a West Bengal Government Consultancy Undertaking, was asked to examine the proposals and to advise the Government.
N.N. Gooptu, Dipanker Gupta P. Mondal, D.K. Sinha, J.R. Das, T. Ray.
Section 3 enables the State Government to extend by a notification, the boundaries of a park but that can only be for the pur poses of the Act and not for the purpose of vesting or creating any title in a property.
This criticism again, according to me, is unfounded.
The conduct of the authorities was thought not above suspicion.
hospital, morgue etc.
The white too shall pass; perhaps sooner than all other tribes.
The Metropolitan Development Department expressed a preference for the second alternative and sug gested the constitution of a Committee.
An amount of 4 crores, if deposited in bank, at a particular rate of compound inter est, for 99 years, would swell to an astronomical figure.
It is important to note that unlike Mohinder Singh Gill 's case where that Court was dealing with a Statutory Order made by a statutory functionary who could not therefore, be allowed to supplement the grounds of this order by later explana tions, the present is a 264 case where neither a statutory functions nor a statutory functionary is involved but the transaction bears a commer cial though public character which can only be settled after protracted discussion, clarification and consultation with all interested persons.
"Regarding the fear that lights emanating from the hotel or illuminate of signs of the hotel would disorient the birds and possibly cause them to hit the building the Management of the Hotel Company has taken a firm decision that there will be no bright lights or noon signs emanating from the hotel."
However the Court will not attempt to nicely balance relevant considerations.
Factors such as per sonal attachment, or affinity, kinship, empa thy, religious sentiment or limiting the choice to whom he may be willing to sell, may permit him to sell the property at a song and without demure.
S.R. Appeal dis missed.
Contaminate your bed and you will one night suffocate in your own waste.
Today public spirited litigants rush to Course to file cases in profusion under this attractive name.
So it is that the environmental question has became urgent and it has to be properly understood and squarely met by man.
This being the position soil testing will hardly be of any avail as the zoo cannot spare the land.
I do not think that the appellants have achieved anything.
It is, therefore, necessary to lay down clear guide lines and to outline the correct parameters for entertainment of such petitions.
His appetite will devour the earth and leave behind only a desert.
We are unable to find any sub stance in the argument.
In the place of a dilapidated hospi tal, operation theater and the like, they constructed build ings anew at a cost of Rs.30 lakhs which amount they were entitled to be reimbursed under clause 25 of the lease, which they voluntarily gave up.
The proposition that a decision must be arrived at after taking into account all relevant considera tions.
That would be most desirable from any point of view.
The zoo is situated on the left bank of the Tolly 's Nallla divided with two parts on either said of the Alipore Road.
In Clause 25 of the lease dead, it is expressly stipulated that the lessee shall reconstruct the structures now existing on the demised land (as found in the sketch accompanying the deed) on the adjacent plot of land and that the plan, design, lay out, estimates, etc. of the proposed new structures should be supplied by the Alipur Zoological Garden to the lessee.
They wanted a suitable plot for its construction.
R. Pal, B.R. Agarwala and Ms. section Manchanda for the Respondent.
This is how the Division Bench deals with aspect of the case in its Judgment: "The appellants before us have impunged the State Government 's decision to grant aforesaid four acres of land out of Begumbari Compound to India Hotel Co. Ltd., mainly on the ground that the same was unreasonable and arbitrary.
The Resolution stated.
eschewing all irrelevant considerations cannot for a moment be doubted.
The whole area is in sheckingly unkept condition, most of it cov ered by a single or spear grass and other wild growth.
According to the learned counsel, the 'nett sales ' method of calculating the compensation payable to the Government for the lease of the land had totally sacrificed the State 's interests.
" When the Court is called upon to give effect to the Directive Principle and the fundamental duty, the Court is not to shrug its shoulders and say that priorities are a matter of policy and so it is a matter for the policy making authority.
378 of 1987.
but that it was expected to be of considerable public bene fit.
275 3rd and 4th petitioners figure here as respondents 6th and 7th.
Before adverting to the submission of the learned coun sel, it is necessary, at this juncture, to refer to certain correspondence.
It was, therefore, ex facie discriminatory and imposed unreasonable restric tions upon the right of persons other than existing contrac tors to carry on business.
They agreed to keep the surroundings of the hotel and the flora well main tained.
She also mentioned that the expert Committee of the Indian Board for Wild Life also unanimously disapprove the idea.
The decision of the Govern ment was also wrong as it was apparently based on some assumptions which had been made without inquiry and verifi cation.
A welfare State exists for the largest good of the largest number more so when it proclaims to be a socialist State dedicated to eradica tion of poverty.
jobbery or nepotism.
The clatter only seems to insult the ears.
Surely, there should be no complaint about it.
238 red man.
Fodder may be bought and brought from elsewhere.
The occasional additional cars plying into and out of the hotel could therefore hardly trouble birds resting on the lake some 250 yards away.
In the last century, a great German materialist philosopher warned mankind: "Let us not, however, flatter ourselves overmuch on account of our human victories over nature.
But, after hearing the lengthy arguments advanced, I ask myself the question whether this exercise could not have been avoided.
The supporting affidavit to the writ petition was sworn to by the first petitioner who described himself as a trade unionist.
I will be second to none in extending help when such help is required.
A copy of the sketch map is enclosed for ready reference.
Public interest is the paramount consideration.
The Commit tee was informed that now adays migratory birds were coming less in number though previ ously more foreign birds used to come here and in the opinion of the Managing Committee, the main reason for this was due to air and sound pollution.
They were willing to afford all the 278 requisite safeguards.
Financial con straint may weaken the tempo of activities.
From the Judgment and Order dated 4.8.1986 of the Cal cutta High Court in F.M.A.T.
Thereafter an expert Committee was consti tuted to supervise the construction Of alternative facili ties.
The Chief Minister endorsed the following.
The decision was taken without considering the impact on the Zoo and without consulting various interested authorities and institutions.
It is worth quoting.
There was nothing discrminatory in the procedure adopted since no other lead ing hotlier had shown any inclination to come forward.
Das abstained from participation in the proceedings.
No one had raised any objection when those building were constituted.
