1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as 'the Corporation ') which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may, if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so, direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months ' notice or salary in lieu thereof.
The Central Government and the Corporation felt that 60 years of age could be a proper age of retirement in the circumstances in respect of the transferred employees and that was the reason why by regulation 19 and the standardisation order issued earlier in the case of certain classes of transferred em ployees under section 11(2) of the Act the retirement age was fixed at 60 years and this was done with a view to retaining the services of the experienced employees of the erstwhile insurers.
To remove the above doubt by Act 17 of 1957 section 49 of the Act was amended by introducing clause (bb) in sub section (2) of section 49 of the Act which expressly conferred power on the Corporation to make regulations with the previous approval of the Central Government as regards 'the terms and condi tions of service of persons who have become employees of the Corporation under sub section (1) of section 11 '.
All the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV irrespective of the fact whether they were transferred employees or employees appointed after 1st September, 1956 were entitled to continue in service till 60 years of age, but the employees belonging to Class I and Class II, who were appointed to the service of the Corpora tion on or after 1st September, 1956 had to retire on the completion of 58 years of age subject to the usual clause relating to premature retirement.
Thereafter sub section (2) of sec tion 11 of the Act read as follows: "(2) Where the Central Government is satisfied that for the purpose of securing uniformity in the scales of remuner ation and the other terms and conditions of service applica ble to employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to, and vested in the Corporation, it is necessary so to do, or that, in the interest of the Corpora tion and its policy holders, a reduction in the remuneration payable, or a revision of the other terms and 193 conditions of service applicable, to employees or any class of them is called for, the Central Government may, notwith standing anything contained in sub section (1), or in the , or in any other law for the time being in force, or in any award, settlement or agree ment for the time being in force, alter (whether by way of reduction or otherwise) the remuneration and the other terms and conditions of service to such extent and in such manner as it thinks fit, and if the alteration. is not acceptable to any employee, the Corporation may terminate his employ ment by giving him compensation equivalent to three months ' remuneration unless the contract of service with such em ployee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
An employee belonging to Class III or Class IV and a transferred employee belonging to Class I or Class II shall retire on completion of age 60; but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter, if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
In other words the contention of the 1st Respondent before the High Court was that since he had the fight to continue in service if he had remained in Class III only till he attained the age of 60 years as a Class III employee by virtue of the settlement and the amendment of the regula tion 19 in the year 1965, the age of retirement in his case could not be reduced to 58 years only because he had been promoted to a Class I post.
In the Settlement which was arrived at between the management and the Class III and Class IV em ployees recruited after 1st September, 1956 it was agreed that there should be no discrimination as regards the age of retirement between the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV categories amongst the transferred employees and the Class III and Class IV employees recruited after 1st September, 1956.
As may be seen from that rule, the classification of the employees was made on the basis of the date of entry into the service of the Government.
The question involved in these appeals by special leave which are filed against the judgment dated August 17, 1985 of the High Court of Allahabad in Civil Miscellaneous Writ No. 6849 of 1984 relates to the constitu tional validity of regulation 19(2) of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Regulations, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as 'the (Staff) Regulations, 1960 '), as amended on 21.1.
Every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with his controlled business immediately before the appointed day shall, on and from the appointed day, become an employee of the Corporation, and shall hold his office therein by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privi leges as to pen 190 sion and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if this Act had not been passed, and shall continue to do so unless and until his employ ment in the Corporation is terminated or until his remuneration, terms and conditions are duly altered by the Corporation:
Leave and retirement
On December 27, 1967 the Indian Railway Administration substituted the note attached to clause (b) of rule 2046 by the new note which read thus: "For the purpose of this clause the expression 'Government Service ' includes service rendered in a former provincial gov ernment and in ex company and ex State Rail ways, if the rules of the Company or the State had a provision similar to Clause (b) above.
We are not concerned in this case with the question whether the age of retirement of employees who have joined the service of the Corporation after 1st September, 1956 should be raised to 60 years.
It was pleaded by them that on the establishment of the Corporation under the Act it became necessary to continue the services of the employees of the erstwhile insurers whose life insurance business was taken over by the Corporation to run the business of the Corpora tion because the Corporation had no employees of its own in the month of September, 1956 when it was established.
" It has to be observed in the case before us also that the transferred employees belong to a diminishing cadre.
" The above regulation fixed the age of retirement of an employee at 55 years while empowering the authority to extend the service of an employee, at its discretion, every year upto 60 years of age.
Clause 6 of that order originally read as follows: "6.
On appeal, the judgment of the High Court was affirmed by this Court in Railway Board vs A. Pitchumani (supra).
The relevant part of the amended regulation 19 which was noti fied on 19.6.1965 read thus: "19(1).
Their complaint was that the Rules created, without any valid justification, two cadres, the State cadre and the provincialised cadre, the former including not only the Government School teachers but also those recruited after October 1, 1957 and posted in the provincialised schools; that by reason of having two cadres and providing for both a uniform 15 per cent for selection grade posts, coupled with making the provincialised cadre a diminishing one, the result had been that teachers deemed to have been appointed to the State cadre with effect from October 1, 1957 and even those recruited thereafter had been promoted to the selec tion grade, while those in the provincialised cadre, though senior in service and performed identical duties and had identical scales of pay, remained in the ordinary grade.
The compensation payable to an employee under this sub section shall be in addition to, and shall not affect, any pension, gratuity, provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service. "
The observation made by Pathak, J. in the course of his judgment that "there is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section (2) in respect of transferred employees.being struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees" is signifi cant.
Explanation
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
The conditions of service of these transferred employ ees of the Corporation whose services were transferred to the Corporation under section 11(1) of the Act were not uniform.
The appointed day for the purposes of the Act is, therefore, September 1. 1956.
Having regard to the lower emoluments and other benefits which the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV are entitled to get from the Corporation and the higher emoluments and other benefits to which officers belonging to Class I and Class II are entitled and also the nature of their work and the powers enjoyed by them we are of the view that fixation of different ages of retirement to the different classes of employees would not by itself be violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
In the (Staff) Regulations, 1956 and the (Staff) Regulations, 1960 there was again a distinction made between the transferred employees and employees re cruited after 1st September, 1956.
Most of the insurers permitted their officers to continue in service upto 60 years of age and even beyond, depending upon their efficiency.
The proviso to that sub section provided that nothing contained in sub section (1) of section 11 of the Act would apply to any such employee who had by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to September 1, 1956 intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
vs The State of Haryana & Ors., ; The facts of that case were these.
It may be so.
This Court held that when once the direct recruits and promoters were absorbed in one cadre they formed one class and they could not be distinguished again for the purpose of further promotion to the higher grade 'C ' The Court further ob served that before the impugned notification was issued there was only one rule of promotion applicable to both direct recruits and promoters but by the impugned notifica tion discriminatory treatment was made in favour of the apprentice train examiners who had already been absorbed in grade 'D '.
The appeals are according ly allowed.
The teachers in Government employment were governed by the Punjab Educational Service Class III School Cadre Rules, 1955.
Sub regulation (2) of regulation 19 which affected the employees belonging to Class I and Class II appointed to the service of the Corpo ration on or after 1st September, 1956 was substituted by a new sub regulation which was notified on September 3, 1966.
As mentioned earlier, there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27,000 whole time employees working in them.
This order is called the 'standardisation order '.
From the said Class III post he was promoted to the Class I post (since there was no necessity to pass through a Class II post before entering a Class I post) on 8.10.1963 and was appointed as Assistant Branch Manager (Admn.).
The above clause was introduced into the Act with retrospective effect along with the new sub 194 section (2) of section 11 of the Act.
There is provision for the transfer of the assets and liabilities pertaining to the business, of provident funds, 206 superannuation and other like funds, of the services of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation and also of the services of existing employees of chief agents of the insurers to the Corporation, and finally for the payment of compensation to the insurers for the transfer of the busi ness to the Corporation.
Out of those 16, 13 have already retired from service on attaining the age of 60 years.
In Govindarajulu vs The Management of Union Bank of India & Ors., (Writ Petition No. 5486 of 1980) the High Court of Madras rejected the said claim by its judgment dated 21.11.
I officers of the Corpora tion.
Since as regards the age of retirement there was no uniformity in the establishments in which the transferred employees were working prior to the nationalisation of the life insurance business 203 and as in some cases the age of retirement had been fixed at 55 years, in some other cases it was 58 years, in few other cases at 60 years and in many cases there was no age of retirement and the employees could continue as long as they were found to be physically and mentally fit, it became necessary to fix the age of retirement of the transferred employees on a fair, equitable and just basis.
The above decision of the Bombay High Court was delivered on 16.4.1957.
On the absorption of the services of the servants of the previous railway companies it became necessary for the Indian Railway Administration to frame rules with regard to their conditions of service including the determination of the age of retirement of those railway employees.
The petitioners in the above case, i.e., Ram Lal Wadhwa & Anr.
But is it like that?
That rule was, therefore, substituted by a new rule on January 11, 1967.
In the matter of leave and retire ment, Field Officers shall be governed by the same regula tions as are applicable to Class
The second of them is due to.retire within 2/3 months and only one of them would continue in the service of the Corporation for about a period of two years more.
The Writ Petition was allowed striking down regulation 19(2) as being violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India and the Corporation was directed not to retire the 1st Respondent before he attained the age of 60 years.
They are all provisions relating to the process of transfer.
The petitioners in that petition contended that the earlier decision of this Court in State of Punjab vs Joginder Singh, (supra) required reconsideration.
or after April 1, 1966 and the remaining twenty per cent by train examiners from grade 'D '.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
In almost all the public sector corporations, Central services and State services 58 years age is considered to be a reasonable age at which officers can be directed to retire from their service.
Pursuant to the said decision, the President of India promulgated the Life Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordi nance, 1956 on January 19, 1956 providing for the vesting of the management of the life insurance business (which was called the controlled business under the Ordinance) which was being carried on by any insurer in India on that day in the Central Government and providing for its management.
(underlining by us) emphasis supplied Pathak, J. also observed at Page 1136 thus: "Another point is whether the power under the second limb of sub section (2) of section 11 can be exercised more than once.
There is no right in a government em ployee to compel it to make fresh appointments in the cadre to which he belongs.
The terms and conditions of service of the employees and agents of the Corporation, including those who became employees and agents of the Corporation on the appointed day under this Act, . . . . . .
Hence, he was not retired on the 30th June, 1984 as originally notified and allowed to continue in service.
In that decision this Court has, no doubt, observed that generally speaking there should not be any difference in the age of retirement of existing workmen and others to be employed in future unless there are special circumstances justifying such difference.
Regulation 21 reads as follows: "21.
The question is whether the provision is confined to transferred employees only or extends to all employees generally.
Regula tion 19 of the (Staff) Regulations, 1960 dealt with the subject of superannuation and retirement of the employees of the Corporation.
The two decisions, referred to above, have been rendered by two different Division Benches.
The High Court has negatived it.
The Government and the Corporation felt that the services 16 persons who were working in the Department of Insurance were required by the Corporation.
We need an ombudsman but the court cannot make do."
This position remained as late as February 13, 1961.
So far as the age of retirement is concerned as it is already shown they are being treated differently right from the date on which the Corporation was estab lished.
Clause (b), however, provided that every ministerial railway serv ant who had entered the Government service on or before 31st March, 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned either in sub clause (i) or sub clause (ii) thereof was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years.
Admittedly, the first limb of sub section (2) relates to transferred employ ees only, and it must be held that so does the second limb.
That power is to be exercised when the Central Government is satisfied that the interests of the Corporation and its Policy holders require such reduction of revision.
They on promotion form one integrated cadre of Class I officers.
We may at this stage refer to a recent decision of this Court in Miss Lena Khan vs Union of India and Ors. , J.T. decided on 30.3. 1987 in which the validity of the continua tion of some foreign Air Hostesses beyond the prescribed age of retirement came up for consideration.
The teachers then employed in those schools, thus became State employees.
It was urged on behalf of the Corporation and the Union of India that the transferred employees and the employees who joined the service after 1st September, 1956 belonged to two distinct and separate classes which had been treated differently throughout for valid reasons.
Thus, the statutory transfer of service from former employers and standardization of scales of remuneration and other conditions of employment had to be and were taken care of by section 11 of the Life Insur ance Corporation Act, 1956 (for short, the LIC Act).
etc. ; , in support of his case before us.
