If the condi tion indicated in sub clause (i) is satisfied, namely, the Government servant is in Class I or Class II service or post and he had entered into service before attaining the age of 35 years, and has attained the age of fifty, the further condition that he must substantively belong to the two classes of service or post cannot be introduced into the scheme.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATH MISRA, J. The petitioner of this application under Article 32 of the Constitution is an engineer who was employed in the Central Public Works Department under the Ministry of Works and Housing in Government of India and was compulsorily retired by order dated 3.8.1976 with effect from 5.11.1976 made under Rule 56(j) of the Fundamental Rules.
There will be no order for costs.
A person can be in Class I or Class II service or post even when he hold a post of either class substantively or temporarily or on officiating basis.
We have already indicated that sub clause (ii) did not apply to the facts of this case as the petitioner had not attained the age of 55 years by the date of the order.
bird who may have to go back to the substantive post from which he has been promoted on an officiating basis what is more to the point, a person who has been appointed de novo may begin his service on an officiating basis or on a tempo rary basis and it is obvious that he has no right to the post and cannot be strictly said to be in that service or post as a member of that service.
The facts of each of these applications are more or less similar to those in Writ Petition No. 7338 of 1981 which we have disposed of today.
It is clear that sub clause (ii) is the general rule applicable to all Government servants and sub clause
On 3.7.1961, he was further promoted as officiating Executive Engineer in Class I service but on 4.9.1965, he was reverted to the post of Assistant Engineer in officiating position and was con tinuing in that post when he was compulsorily retired.
Even if the writ petition is allowed and the order of compulsory retirement is set aside the petitioner cannot go back to service.
They would, however, be entitled to salary and other service allowances payable to them from the date of compulsory retirement till the date of their normal superannuation.
The observations made in Tahiliani 's case indisputably support the petitioner.
The purpose of Fundamental Rules 56(j) is to confer power on the appropriate authority to compulsorily retire Government servant in the public interest and the classification of Government servants into two categories covered by sub clauses (i) and (ii) has a purpose behind it.
But the correct ness thereof is disputed by learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India and that is why this writ petition was directed to be heard by a larger Bench.
Such judgments have become final and Union of India has given effect to the decisions of the Delhi High Court.
" It is clear from it that the petitioner attained the age of 50 years on 10.2.1972 and, therefore, on the date of the order he had completed the age of 54 years.
The petitioner would have superannuated from service on 29.2.1980 if he had not been compulsorily retired with effect from 639 5.11. 1976.
The two Judge Bench which decided the case held: " An officiating hand has no right to the post and is perhaps a fleeting.
The possibility of such incumbent being sent back to the 638 substantive post is not at all relevant in the matter of exercising powers of compulsory retirement.
There is no warrant for the conclusion that officiating Government servants in Class I or Class II service or post are outside the purview of sub clause (i).
" The impugned notice ran thus: "No. 32/452/66 EC.
ENGINEER IN CHIEF To Shri A.L. Ahuja, Assistant Engineer (Civil), (Under Suspension), A11/85, Lajpat Nagar, New Delhi 110024.
WRIT PETITION NOS.
Strong reliance was placed by counsel for the petitioner on the reasons extracted above.
Such payment be made within two months from today.
Ram Jethmalani and Miss Rani Jethmalani for the Petitioner.
6251 & 8189 OF 1981 Each of the petitioners in these two writ applications under Article 32 of the Constitution
