We accordingly uphold the view of the High Court of Bombay that the terms 'officer or employee ' of a company applies not only to existing officers or employees but also to past officers or employees if such officer or employee either (a) wrongfully obtains possession of any property, or (b) having obtained such property during the course of his employment, withholds the same after the termination of his employment.
The controversy is as to the meaning of the term 'officer or employee ' used in sub s(1) of section 630 and as to the meaning of the words 'any such property ' in cl.
In view of this, the company was constrained to lodge a complaint against the petitioner under section 630 of the Act in the Court of the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, 37th Court, Esplanade, Bombay alleging that he was wrongfully withholding the flat in question which had been given to him for his residence during the period of his employment and and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 630.
On a careful analysis of section 630 held that the provisions of the section apply not only to the present officers and employees of the company but also to past officers and employees, and observed: "It is held that the features and deductions which flow logically and inescapably on an analysis of section 630 are that: (i) Clause (a) of the section is self contained and independent of cl.
(b) also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
There is also no warrant for the construction placed by the High Court of Calcutta on the words 'any such property ' occurring in cl.
(iii) The entitlement of an officer to the property of the company is contingent on the right and capacity of the officer by virtue of his employment which is transformed into the actual possession of the property and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment.
At the conclusion of the hearing we had by a short order dismissed the special leave petition and held that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge following the earlier decisions of the High Court in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani and reiterated in Govind T. Jagtiani was to be preferred to the view to the contrary expressed by the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum.
It also held that the words 'any such property ' in section 630(l)(b) relate to property specified in cl.
(b) as applicable to such property of a company, possession of which is wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company i.e. refers to the whole of cl.
(a) and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees, it may also take in past officers and employees.
It appears that the company on humanitarian grounds acceded to this request and permitted the petitioner to stay on in the company 's flat for six months after his retirement and in accordance with the company 's rules, he was required to pay compensation for the use of the premises.
wrongfully withholds possession of it after the termination of his employment.
No. 1765 of 1987 From the Judgment and order dated 8/9.7.1987 of the Bombay High Court in W.P.
In the result, the special leave petition must fail and is dismissed with costs.
Sub section (1) by clauses (a) and (b) creates two distinct and separate offences.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2, 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
(a) and (b) are separated by the word 'or ' which must in the context in which it appears be read as 'and ' and so construed, must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
(a) into cl.
See: Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh & Anr., , Govind T. Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi & Anr., [ which have since been followed in a series of cases referred to by the learned Single Judge (Ashok Agarwal, J.).
(b) as taking in the property mentioned in cl.
The question was whether such wrongful retention of the flat amounted to an offence under section 63() of the Act.
(b) of sub section (1) for the contention that cl.
J. The by section 630, enacts: "630.
The entire argument of the learned counsel is based upon the judgment of the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum 's case.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
The petitioner is given one month 's time to vacate the premises failing which the respondents will be at liberty to take such proceedings as the law provides.
On June 30, 1986 the company merged with the Shipping Corporation of India and all its assets and liabilities were taken over by the Corporation.
It would be noticed that cl.
Prior to that i.e. On September 26, 1984 he addressed a letter requesting the company to permit him to continue to live in the company 's premises during the period of his accumulated leave after his retirement i.e. for a period of six months, undertaking to vacate the flat as early as possible.
He had been allotted the premises of a flat, approximately 3,500 square feet in area, located at Mayfair Gardens, Little Gibbs Road, Bombay.
(b) does not stand by itself but is inter connected with cl.
" The learned Judge (Ashok Agarwal, J.) observes that that has been the consistent view of the High Court and has referred to the subsequent decisions of Khatri j J. and Kurdukar,
(b) was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations, as suggested.
At the very threshold it is necessary to set out a few facts.
(b), even though cls.
A few days thereafter i.e. On March 7, 1986 the petitioner instituted a suit being Civil Suit No. 174 1382/86 in Small Causes Court, Bombay seeking a declaration that he was a tenant of the disputed flat, which is now pending.
and they expressly legislated.
(a) as regards penal consequences squarely covering the case of a past employee or officer.
