The agreement is described as an agreement of 'leave and licence ' entered into between the respondent on the one hand and the appellant on the other wherein the respondent had been described as the 'licensor and the appellant had been described as the licensee ' and the recitals therein recite that the licensor was seized and possessed of and was otherwise well entitled as the monthly tenant of the workshop premises situated at 231, Ripon Road, Cooperative Building, Bombay, being the premises in dispute, and whereas the licensee had approached the licensor to allow him to occupy and use the said premises for the purpose of carrying out his business of workshop for a period of five years and whereas the licensor had agreed to allow the licensee to use the premises under the said leave and licence of the licensor for a period of five years from 1st of September, 1965 till 31st of August, 1970, that agreement was being executed.
In the aforesaid view of the matter, we are clearly of the opinion that in view of the intention of the parties in the document and the facts and circumstances of this case, it was a licence and not a lease.
The High Court disallowed the special civil application under Article 227 of the Constitution on 17th of November, 1980 and that is the judgment impugned in this appeal.
In order to go back to the findings of the learned Judge of the Court of Small Cause and the learned High Court Judge found that the appellant had failed to prove that he was a sub tenant of the respondent and the learned Judge found him to be a licensee.
It is further mentioned in the said agreement that it was agreed by the licensee that if he commits any default of any terms and conditions or fails to pay the compensation for two months or if the licensee at any time puts up false or adverse claim of tenancy or sub tenancy the licensor shall be entitled to terminate the agreement and cancel and revoke and withdraw the leave and licence granted earlier and shall be entitled to take possession forthwith of the said premises.
The contention of the respondent that he was a tenant was negatived by the Small Cause Court, Bombay.
This Court allowing the appeal held that in order to get the advantage of section 15A of the Bombay Rent Act, the occupant must be in occupation of the premises as a licensee as defined in section 5(4A) on the 1st of February, 1973.
On or about 9th of November, 1970 the owner of the premises filed an ejectment proceeding against one Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain and obtained a decree.
N.P.V. Appeal dismissed.
Reviewing these decisions Denning, L.J. had observed at page 384 of the report (1) that to ascertain whether a document created a licence or lease, the substance of the document must be preferred to the form; (2) the real test was the intention of the parties whether they intended to create a lease or a licence; (3) if the document created an interest in the property, it is a lease; but if it only permitted another to make use of the property, of which the legal possession continued with the owner, it was a licence; and (4) if under the document a party got exclusive possession of the property, prima facie, he was considered to be a tenant; but circumstances might be established which negative the intention to create a lease.
There was no error of fact as such on that.
The main question involved in this appeal is whether the appellant was a licensee or a tenant and also incidentally the question whether the Court of Small Causes, Bombay had jurisdiction to deal with the eviction petition in this case.
In any event this is a possible view that could be taken.
The agreement further recited that the licensor shall have the full right to enter upon the premises and inspect the same at any time.
This decision was approved in appeal by this Court in Sohan Lal Naraindas vs Laxmidas Raghunath Gadit, where this Court reiterated that the test of exclusive possession was important point.
and an order was passed in Civil Appeal
The Bombay Rent Act was amended by Maharashtra Act 17 of 1973.
This decision was remanded back to the High Court and it was directed that the appellant should be heard afresh in accordance with law because in a previous decision Vaidya, J. by the judgment dated 9th of December, 1975 as mentioned hereinbefore had allowed the appellant 's appeal.
