the pay scale recommended by the Pay Rationalisation Committee, the nature of duties and responsibilities and the fact that every Hon 'ble Judge will have one Private Secretary in the scale of Rs.500 1,000 we feel that the Bench Secretaries cannot be given the same scale of pay which is being given to Superintendents or the Section Officers.
It is said that it would be violative of the Constitutional right of "equal pay for equal work".
The Bench Secretaries Grade 1 are in a higher pay scale than Bench Secretaries Grade II.
On the submissions made by counsel on both sides, two questions arise for our consideration: (i) Whether Bench Secretaries in the High Court of Allahabad are entitled to pay scale admissible to Section Officers?; and (ii) Whether the creation of two Grades with different pay scales in the cadre of Bench Secretaries who are doing the same or similar work is violative of the right to have "equal pay for equal work"?
It was found that the petitioner and the other drivers in the Delhi Police Force per formed the same functions and duties as other drivers in the service of the Delhi Administration and the Central Government.
The entitlement to higher pay scale depends upon selection based on merit cum seniority.
It is limited to only Upper Division Lower Division Assistants of the High Court.
No. of No. of No. of Pay No.
They were in the pay scale of Rs.
Under the rules framed by the Chief Justice of the High Court, Bench Secretaries Grade I are selected by a Selection Committee.
It is not necessary to emphasise that in comparison to Bench Secretaries, the Section Officers of the secretariat has to bear more responsibilities in their Section and have to control over its subordinates.
`Equal pay for equal work for both men and women ' means equal pay for equal work for every one and as beween the sexes.
So long as they are performing the same duties, they must receive the same salary and conditions of service as class IV employees. "
Therefore, the responsibilities of the two posts cannot be said to be equal.
In support of these conclusions the High Court relied upon two decisions of this Court: [i] Randhir Singh vs Union of India; , and [ii] P. Savita vs Union of India, [1985] Suppl. 1 SCR 101.
In the present case, all Bench Secretaries may do the same work, but their quality of work may differ.
Section Officers have to prepare a lengthy and original notes in complicated and important matters.
If it has a rational nexus with the object to be sought for, as reiterated before a certain amount of value judgment of the administrative authorities who are charged with fixing the pay scales has to be left with them and it cannot be interfered with by the Court unless it is demonstrated that either it is irrational or based on no basis or arrived mala fide either in law or in fact.
The Commission, therefore, recommended Rs.400 750 for Bench Secretaries and Rs.500 1,000 to Section Officers.
The State Government accepted the recommendations.
They demanded that they should at least be put at par with Section Officers if not on higher scale.
The classification based on experience is a reasonable classification.
article 14 of the Constitution enjoins the State not to deny any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws and article 16 declares that there shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointments to any office under the State.
The Committee was asked to consider the duties and responsibilities of different categories of posts.
The High Court as usual supported their claim, but the Government did not.
The criterion of selection shall be merit with due regard to seniority.
Directive Principles,as has been pointed out in some of the judgments of this Court have to be read into the fundamental rights as a matter of interpretation.
Group II PG NO 298 but because of the Government order dated July 2, 1976.
The question is whether there could be two scales of pay in the same cadre of persons performing the same or similar work or duties.
S.L. Appeal allowed.
There is super time scale in other like services.
The Committee recommended for them a pay scale slightly lower than that of Section Officers.
The question is not particular to the present case.
The Government appears to have received several such representations against the report of Ali Zahir Commission.
No. 455 and connected petitions of 1987 of DD 2.6.1988 and Y.K. Mehta vs UOI, WP
It was found that the nature
Even in Randhir Singh 's case, this principle has been recognised.
Writ Petition No. 4211 of 1983.
The learned Judge however, observed that a differential treatment in appropriate cases can be justified when there are two grades based on reasonable grounds: "It is well known that there can be and there are different grades in a service, with varying qualification for entry into a particular grade, the higher grade often being a promotional avenue for officers of the lower grade.
Article 39(d) of the Constitution proclaims "equal pay for equal work" .
It is pertinent to all such cases.
Rule 16 provides that the posts of Bench Secretaries Grade I shall be filled up by promotion from amongst permanent Bench Secretaries Grade II.
It was also admitted by the Delhi Administration in that case that the duties of driver constable of the Delhi Police Force were onerous.
100 450 are of a great responsibility for which experience and special qualifications are required.
In 1979, the State Government appointed another Pay Commission.
He or she learns also by experience as much as by other means.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by JAGANNATHA SHETTY, J. This appeal by special leave is from a judgment of the High Court of Allahabad dated November 6, 1985 passed in Civil Misc.
Of Scale Permanent Temporary Posts Scale Post Post Posts in higher scale 1.
a Committee called the "Anomalies Committee was constituted.
These equality clauses of the Constitution must mean something to every one.
The differentiation so made in the same cadre will not amount to discrimination.
