If the High Court is satisfied that if some but not all of t he findings of the Tribunal were "unreasonable", the order of the Governor on whose powers by the rules no restrictions in determining the appropriate punishment are placed, w as final, and the High Court had no jursidiction to direct t he Governor to review the penalty, for as we have alrea dy observed the order of dismissal passed by a competent a u thority on a public servant, if the conditions of the co n stitutional protection have been complied with, is n ot justifiable.
" The learned Judge also said (at 227): "Now it is settled by the decision of this Court in State of Orissa vs Bidyabhushan Mohapatra, that if the ord er of a punishing authority can be supported on any finding as to substantial misdemeanour for which the punishment can be imposed, it is not for the Court to consider whether the 33 charge proved alone would have weighed with the authority in imposing the punishment.
Jurisdiction, powers and authority of t he Central Administrative Tribunal: 27 (1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in th is Act, the Central Administrative Tribunal shall exercise, on and from the appointed day, all the jurisdiction, powers a nd authority exercisable immediately before that day by a ll courts (except Supreme Court) in relation to: (a) recruitment, and matters concerning recrui t ment, to any All India Service or to any civil service of the Union or a civil post under the Union or to a po st connected with defence or in the defence services, being in either case, a post filled by a civilian; (b) all service matters concerning Similar are the powers and authority of the State Ser v ice Tribunal under sec.
1709 of 1988.
The Tribun al also cannot interfere with the penalty if the conclusion of the Inquiry Officer or the competent authority is based on evidence even if some of it is found to be irrelevant or extraneous to the matter.
The Tribunal however, h as held that the respondent was guilty of entering the name of Ashok Kumar in the pay roll of May 4969.
Section 27 provides for finality of t he orders of the Tribunal.
If it is his case that he is not t he government servant who has been in fact convicted, he c an also agitate this question in appeal, revision or review.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
On the other hand, an order bas ed on several grounds some of which are found to be non exis t ent or irrelevant, can be sustained if the court is sati s fied that the authority would have passed the order on t he basis of the other relevant and existing grounds, and t he exclusion of the irrelevant or non existent grounds cou ld not have affected the ultimate opinion or decision. "
Section 28 excludes t he jurisdiction of all Courts except the Supreme Court.
Because, the Tribunal is just a substitute to t he civil court and High Court.
The High Court observed: "That the findings in respect of charges l(a) and l(e) 29 should be set aside as being opposed to the rules of natur al justice, but the findings in respect of charges l(c) a nd l(d) and charge 2 need not be disturbed.
M.K.D. Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP (Civil) N o. 6998 of 1988.
But the Court in a case in which an order of dismissal of a public servant is impugned, is n ot concerned to decide whether the sentence imposed, provid ed it is justified by the rules, is appropriate having rega rd to the gravity of misdemeanour established.
Shri Ashok Kumar and initiated it below the signatures of issuing officer and this identity card Was used by Sh ri Suraj Singh, Cleaner (Token No. 210 K), Boggi Tunnelli ng Division, at the time of attempting to receive the pay of Shri Ashok Kumar from the Cashier.
In pursuance of the provisions of the Act, the Centr al Government has established the Central Administrative Trib u nal with a Bench at Chandigarh whose order has been cha l lenged before us.
He was found guilty of t he charge framed against him.
There will be no order as to costs.
14, 15, 16, 27, 28 and 29
It provides power to Parliament to enact law for establishme nt of Administrative Tribunals for adjudication of disput es with regard to service matters.
There was, in our view, legal eviden ce before the Commissioner upon which he was entitled to re st his finding that the copies relied on by the appellant we re not genuine."
The Tribunal thus could exercise on ly such powers which the Civil Court or the High Court cou ld have exercised by way of judicial review.
with the disciplinary authority whi le dismissing the applicant from service.
The High Court was, in our judgment, in error in directing the Governor of Orissa to reconsider t he question."
Civil Appeal No.
Considering all these facts this Court felt that it would not be fair to direct a low paid class IV employee to face the hazards of a fresh enquiry.
" This proposition in Dhirajlal 's case was explained a nd the statement of law in Bidyabhushan 's case was affirmed in State of Maharashtra vs B.K. Takkamore & Ors., ; It was case of supersession of the Corporation.
In this backdrop, we may consider the main question th at we have set out at the beginning of the judgment.
There should be only one Tribunal for t he Union of India and one for each State or for two or mo re States put together.
The powers of the High Cour ts under Article 226, in so far as they are exercisable in relation to service matters stand conferred on the Tribun al established under the Act.
