441 of 1981 was heard by this Court either the subsequent ord er dated 28th December, 1965 as well as the circular dated 20 th January, 1966 and the legal consequences flowing therefr om were not brought to the notice of the learned Judges by t he learned counsel for the respondents, or the same was n ot properly emphasised, the judgment dated 2nd February, 19 81 being completely silent on the point and the appeal w as allowed only on the ground that some Supervisors having be en promoted as Chargeman II on expiry of 2 years of the ir service in view of the circular dated 6th November, 1962 t he non promotion of the appellants was discriminatory being in violation of Article 16.
It was urged that in case the sa me relief is not granted to the petitioners they are likely to become juniors to some of the appellants in Civil Appeal N o. 441 of 1981 and the petitioners in the writ petitions
ing Supervisors 'A ' in the Indian Ordnance Factories we re governed by the Rules and in view of Rule 12 no appointme nt to the various posts to which the Rules applied could be made otherwise than as specified therein; According to learned counsel since Rule 8 of the Rules contemplated th at appointments by promotion were to be made on the basis of selection list prepared in the manner provided therei n, there was no scope for automatic promotion merely aft er expiry of 2 years of continuous service on the basis of t he circular dated 6th November, 1962.
As already noticed earlier certain writ petitions filed in Madhya Pradesh High Court were allowed by that Court on 4 th April, 1983 relying on the judgment of this Court dated 2 nd February, 1981 in Civil Appeal
441 of 1981.
The prayer made in Civil Miscellaneo us Petition No.
It appears that the remaining 50 diploma holde rs recruited in 1963 and those who had been recruited in t he begning of 1964 or thereafter could not be promoted inasmu ch as by the time their cases could be considered for promoti on the subsequent order dated 28th December, 1965 had come in to force and had also come into force the circular dated 20 th January, 1966 which had superseded the circular dated 6 th November, 1962 and had provided that in future promotions of all such individuals will be effected in accordance with t he normal rules and not merely on the completion of two yea rs satisfactory continuous service.
[198 8] 3 S.C. Judgments Today 724 wherein it has been held: "It is well settled that the norms regarding recruitment a nd promotion of officers belonging to the Civil Services can be laid down either by a law made by the appropriate Legisl a ture or by rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India or by means of executive instru c tions issued under Article 73 of the Constitution of Ind ia in the case of Civil Services under the Union of India a nd under Article 162 of the Constitution of India in the ca se of Civil Services under the State Governments.
In view of.
" It is against this judgment that Civil Appeal No.
In so far as Supervisors 'A ' who claimed promotion as Chargeman 11 the following direction was accordingly giv en by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in its judgment dated 4 th April, 1983 aforesaid: "All these petitioners are also entitled to be treated as Chargeman Grade II on completion of two years satisfacto ry service as Supervisor Grade A. Consequently, notion al seniority of these persons have to be refixed in Supervis or Grade A, Chargeman Grade II, Grade I and Assistant Forem an in cases of those who are holding that post . .
If the appellants are promote d, they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
vs Union of India & Ors. ,
Against t he aforesaid judgment of the Madhya Pradesh High Court dat ed 4th April, 1983 Special Leave Petitions (Civil)
We are further of the opinion that it is not a fit case for initiating any proceedings for contempt again st the respondents.
The three civ il miscellaneous petitions referred to above on the other ha nd have been made by the appellants of Civil Appeal
PROMOTION D.G.O.F. has decided that Diploma holders serving as 97 Supervisor 'A ' (Tech)/Supervisor 'B '/(Tech) and in equiv a lent grades should be treated as follows (i) All those Diploma holders who have been appointed as Supervisor 'B ' (Tech) (and in equivalent grades)
No. 4 41 of 1981, filed in C.M.P. Nos.
These writ petitions, therefore, deserve to be dismissed.
The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
There will be no order as to costs.
No. 44 1 of 198 1 that those w ho according to them had been promoted in pursuance of t he circular dated 6th/November, 1962 on completing two year s ' service were junior to them.
The grievance of the petitio n ers, however, is that this promotion tantamounts to impl e mentation of the order of this Court dated 2nd Februar y, 1981 only on paper inasmuch as they have not been grant ed the difference of back wages and promotion to higher pos ts on the basis of their back date promotion as
It cannot be disputed that the Director General of Ordnance Factories who had issued the circular dated 6 th November, 1962 had the power to issue the subsequent circ u lar dated 20th January, 1966 also.
T he petitioners are also entitled to get their present sala ry re fixed after giving them notional seniority so that t he same is not lower than those who are immediately bel ow them.
" It i s, therefore, clear that neither the Rules of July '30, 195 9, nor the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector divisionwise varies the conditions of service of the petitioners to their disadvantage. "
It h as further been stated therein that after the newly creat ed posts were thus filled by promotion, chances of promotion of those who were appointed subsequently diminished and f or want of sufficient number of 108 vacancies as Chargeman II they could not be promoted to th at post soon after the completion of 2 years ' service.
441 of 1981 may also be granted the same relief which was granted to the 109 petitioners in the writ petitions before the Madhya Prade sh High Court.
Having heard learned counsel for the parties we fi nd substance in the submission made by the learned counsel f or the respondents.
The requirements of rule 8 in brief have already been indicated above.
62 and 4416/A/NG dt.
Writ Petition (Civil)
3812 19 of 1983 with regard to a matter relevant for promotion.
Since Rule 8 in t he instant case prescribed a procedure for making promotion t he said procedure could not be abrogated by the executi ve instruction dated 6th November, 1962.
" In our opinion, therefore, the appellants in Civ il Appeal
Howeve r, merely on completion of two years ' service a Supervisor ' A ' could not claim automatic promotion.
There is a further averment in the said counter affidavit that pet i tioners were duly considered in their turn and their nam es were brought on the approved panel.
441 of 198 1 its result may have been differen t.
The effect of this change obviously was th at now only fifty per cent vacancis in the post of Depu ty Collector being available in place of all the vacancies it was to take almost double the time for many other allocat ed Tehsildars to get promoted as Deputy Collectors.
It is now we ll settled by the decision of this Court in State of Mysore vs G.B. Purohit that though a right to be considered for prom o tion is a condition of service, mere chances of promoti on are not.
This was an argument, neither pleaded as a ground for the petition nor was raised before the learn ed Single Judge.
In oth er words it resulted in delayed chance of promotion.
that the judgment of this Court dat ed 2nd February, 1981 in Civil Appeal
3325 of 1987 is for the issue of an inter im order restraining the respondents from making any furth er promotions during the pendency and final heating of t he miscellaneous petition and for initiating contempt procee d ings.
the earli er circular dated 6th November, 1962 which provides: "Sub: N.G. Establishment Treatment of Diplo ma Holders and ex apprentices serving as Supr. or in equivalent grades in the matter of promotion.
It indicates that approximately 125 diploma holders were r e cruited in 1962, 550 in 1963, 250 in 1964, 150 in 1965 a nd 100 in 1966, the total number of such recruits being appro x imately 1175.
