In the first place, even assum ing that the petitioners ' jobs are comparable with the counterparts in the government service, the petitioners cannot enforce the right to "equal pay for equal work".
The main object of the Corporation as seen from the Memorandum of Associa tion is to preserve the traditional arts and crafts and also to popularise handicrafts and handloom items 665 in the State of Himachal Pradesh and other parts of the country and abroad.
Unless it is shown that there is a discrimination amongst the same set of employees by the same master in the same establishment, the principle of "equal pay for equal work" cannot be enforced.
The Corporation is a company which has been incorporated under the .
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, they are seeking enforcement of their fundamental right to have "equal pay for equal work".
They are being paid the same wages as are payable to carpenters, painters and carpenters ' helpers engaged in the construction industry.
His case was based on the allegations that he was discharging same duties and performing similar functions as "Senior Speech Therapist", "Senior Physiotherapist", "Senior Occupa tional Therapist", "Audiologist" and "Speech Pathologist".
In the result, the petition fails and is dismissed.
The Corporation has clearly stated that there are no regular employees of the petitioners ' categories in its establishment and, as such, the question of payment to the petitioners, the pay admissible to regular employees does not arise.
Reference may be made to: (i) State of U.P. vs J.P. Chaurasia, ; and (ii) Meva Ram Kanojia vs All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Anr., ;
The Court held that the principle of "equal pay for equal work" has no mechanical application in every case of similar work.
They cannot claim wages payable to their counterparts in government service.
It was pointed out that in service, merit or experience could be the proper basis for classification to promote efficiency in administration and he or she learns also by experience as much as by other means.
It requires the consideration of various dimensions of the job.
The Court while rejecting the claim expressed the view (at 100): "But equal pay must depend upon the nature of the work done, it cannot be judged by the mere volume of work, there may be qualitative difference as regards reliability and responsibility.
It is thus a service oriented organisation helping the village artisans and craftsmen to produce and market their products on remunerative prices.
In the light of the aforesaid principles, we may now consider whether the equality claims of the petitioners could be allowed.
exhibit P. 2 was issued by the Deputy Commissioner in the exercise of his powers under the H.P. Financial Rules.
It is, therefore, not impermissible to provide two different pay scales in the same cadre on the basis of selection based on merit with due regard to experience and seniority.
We leave the petitioners to work out their rights elsewhere in accordance with law applicable to them.
From the averments in the pleadings of the parties it will be clear that the Corporation has no regularly employed carpenters.
The petitioners are treated as industrial workmen and .are
Randhir Singh case was concerned with a driver constable in the Delhi Police Force under the Delhi Administration.
