According to the learned Attorney General, since the Act provides for only one exception to this measure, namely, non inclusion of the cost of such packing where the packing is durable in nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee, in all other cases the cost of the packing would have to be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods where such goods are delivered at the time of removal in packed condition.
In the premises, the value of the drums with regard to the fusel oil/styrene monomer irrespective of whether these were supplied by the assessee or not, are not includible in the assessable value of the Styrene Monomer.
It is only that degree of secondary packing which is necessary for assessable articles to be in the condition in which it is generally sold in the wholesale market which can be included at the factory gate which should be included in the value of the article.
Reliance was placed by Shri Salve as well as by the learned Attorney General, appearing on behalf of the revenue, on the relevant provisions of the Act and the position as explained by this Court in Union of India & Ors. vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., ; 981 Shri Salve has, however, contended that so far as this Court is concerned, this question is concluded by the deci sion of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd., Learned Attorney General, however, contended that this decision did not deal with the present controversy.
For the purposes of this sub clause, the amount of the duty of excise payable on any excisable goods shall be the sum total of (a) the effective duty of excise payable on such goods under this Act; and (b) the aggregate of the effective duties of excise payable under other Central Acts, if any, providing for the levy of duties of excise on such goods , and the effective duty of excise on such goods under each Act referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) shall be, (i) in a case where a notification or order providing for any exemption (not being an exemption for giving credit with respect to, for reduction or duty of excise under such Act on such goods equal to, any duty of excise under such Act, or the additional duty under Section 3 of the (51 of 1975), already paid] on the raw material or component parts used in the production or manufacture of such goods) from the duty of excise under such Act is for the time being in force, the duty of excise computed with refer ence to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods as reduced so as to give full and complete effect to such exemption; and (ii) in any other case, the duty of excise computed with reference to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods.
If the manufacturer supplies the drums and charges the customers separately therefore, then, under section 4(4)(d)(i), the cost of the drums to the buyer has to be added to the price except where the packing is of durable nature and is to be returned to the manufacturer.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer, there fore, the value had to be included in the assessable value.
There was no evidence that there was any necessity of pack ing or putting these in drums prior to their sale.
It has to be borne in mind that the scheme of old section 4 of the Act and new section 4 is the same as was held by this Court in the case of Bombay Tyre International, (supra) at pages 376 E F, 377 H and 378 A B, H of the Report.
According to the appellant, the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oil/Styrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
The same were allowed by the Collector (Appeals).
It may be necessary in this connection to refer to the observations of this Court in Union of India & Ors.
From these tanks the goods were removed directly and placed in vehicles for their movement for 90% of the sales, the vehicle of removal was tankers and 10% of the sales, the vehicle of removals was drums.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
It was conceivable that the wholesale dealer who takes delivery might have its depot at a very short distance only from the factory gate or may have such transport arrangements available that damage or injury to the cigarettes could be avoided.
The "cost of such packing" referred in section 4(4)(d)(i) does not in clude within its ambit the cost of packing not incurred by the manufacturer when the packing is supplied by the buyer and not the manufacturer.
In the aforesaid view of the matter, I am of the opinion that these appeals have to be allowed and the orders of the Tribunal set aside.
But as a matter of fact, delivery in drums was only to facilitate their transport in small quantities.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression "packing" as the wrapper, container, bobbin, pirn, spool, reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped, contained or wound.
It was held by Pathak, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) that such cost of corrugated fibreboard containers could not be in cluded in the determination of "value" in section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Act for the purposes of excise duty.
The scheme of the old section 4 is indisputedly to determine the assessable value of the goods on the basis of the price charged by the assessee, less certain abatements.
The goods were manufactured without these cylinders.
It has to be borne in mind that the measure of excise duty is price and not value.
In my opinion also, the above conclusion reached on the language of section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Act is sufficient to allow these appeals.
For articles to be goods, these must be known in the market as such and these must be capable of being sold or being sold in the market as such.
Therefore, the learned Attorney General submitted, the mere fact that the assessee in C.A.
On 2nd July, 1983, a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
On the facts of this case, there is evidence that 90% of the monomer was delivered at the time of removal without being put in drums.
It is, therefore, necessary to bear in mind that a process which is ancillary or incidental to the completion of the manufactured product, that is to say, to make the manufacture complete would be "manufacture".
These were only employed, it was emphasised by the majority of the Judges, for the purpose of avoiding damage or injury during transit.
Collector of Central Excise, Panaji & Ors., as also the decision of the Karnataka High Court in Alembic Glass Industries Ltd. vs Union of India & Ors.
This Court reiterated that section 4 of the Act provides the measure by reference to which the charge is to be levied.
It is also the case of the appellant that the said fusel oil/Styrene Monomer manufac tured by it is sold in bulk and delivered to the customers at the appellant 's factory.
He answered that it is not.
See the observations of this Court in Bombay Tyre International 's case (supra) at page 393 D & E.
Reference was made both by the learned Attorney General and Shri Salve to the observations of this Court in Union of India vs Godfrey Phillips India Ltd., [1985] Supp.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
The appellant had filed its price lists in respect of the same.
In those cases, the corrugated fibreboard containers, according to Pathak, J., were not necessary for selling the cigarettes in the wholesale market.
There is no presump tion as to tax.
The respondent supplied these gases in cylinders at their factory gate.
This Court rejected the contention of the assessee in that case that because the levy of excise is a levy on goods manufactured or produced, the value of an excisable article must be limited to the manufacturing cost plus manufacturing profit.
ED(SB)(T) A. Nos.
No. 4339 of 1986 sold only 10% of the excisable goods to its buyer where drums were supplied by the buyers themselves and that 90% of the sales were through tankers belonging to the customers would not in any manner affect the question or determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods inasmuch as the 10% of its sales to whole sale buyers were in drums supplied by the buyers at the time of removal.
In construing section 4(4)(d)(i), all that has to be seen is whether the goods are delivered in packed condition.
From the Judgment and Order dated 4.7.85 & 21.6.84 of the Customs Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi in Appeal Nos.
Furthermore, no cost was, in fact, incurred by the assessee.
It overlooks the use of the expression "cost" in relation to packing in the clause (i) of section 4(4)(d) of the Act.
Learned Attorney General contended that the decision of Indian Oxygen Ltd. 's case (supra) cannot be relied on in view of the facts of this case.
RANGANATHAN, J I have perused the judgment proposed to be delivered by my learned brother Sabyasachi Mukharji, J. I agree with the conclusion arrived at by him but I would like to rest it entirely on the language of section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Central Excises & Salt Act, 1944, without going into the larger questions raised by counsel and dealt with by my learned brother.
There fore, the rental of the same though income of ancillary activity, was not the value incidental to the manufacture and could not be included in the assessable value.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
The appellant was not a manufacturer of drums.
These were in the storage tanks of the assessee and were as such marketable.
It is apparent from the wide language, according to the learned Chief Justice, of Explanation to section 4(4)(d)(i) that every kind of container in which it can be said that the excisable goods are contained would be 'packing ' within the meaning of the Explanation.
In my opinion, that is the correct approach to the problem.
Where the manufacturer supplies his own container or drum but does not charge the customer therefore, then the price of the goods will also include the cost of the con tainer.
It also manufactures and sells another liquid known as styrene monomer.
Here also obviously, the reference is not generally to the taxes payable on such goods by either the assessee or the buyer but is obviously to the taxes payable by the assessee.
