So a comparison of the relevant rules would show that a larger restriction is imposed both on the area in respect of which a Parwana could be issued and the duration of the Parwana right and as also stated that the persons who take quarrying Parwana are persons belonging to the weaker sections of society and if under rule 21 a concession is shown in their favour it cannot be said that there is no reasonable nexus between the classification for purposes of the proviso to rule 21 to show concession in the matter of payment of royalty and the social policy underlying the Constitution, the statute and the Rules.
The original rule 21 was substituted by new rule 21 by the issue of impugned notification on 26 6 1985 which provides that a holder of a quarry lease or any other mineral conces sion granted under the Rules shall pay royalty in respect of minor minerals provided in column 2 of the Schedule, removed or consumed by him or by his agent, manager, employee, contractor or sub lessee from the leased area at the rates specified in column 3 of the said Schedule.
Under clause 1 of the proviso to the impugned rule 21, a holder of a Parwana granted under the Rules has to pay royalty at the rate of 50 per cent of the royalty payable by the lessees and no royalty is payable by village potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year and by the village potters whose annual production was not exceeding two lakh bricks and who supply at least one lakh bricks to the Rural Housing Board or Panchayats.
We do not, therefore, find any substance in the contention urged by Shri Nariman.
" It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
Since many of the contentions raised by the parties in respect of the constitutionality of section 15 of the Act and the validity of Rules made thereunder had been considered and the contentions urged by the petitioners against the said rule in those petitions had been rejected, in the present case the petitioners have confined their case only to the following points which according to them had not been considered in the said decision.
It is under this notification the rate of royalty in respect of black trap and Hard Murrum was increased from Rs.
It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
415 (b) Individual families of 'Khanias ' who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in the area applied for.
that the royalty levied and covered under the Rules should be applied only for mineral development and since the said royalty is being treated as part of the consolidated fund of the State and used for other purposes by the State the levy was bad; and 2.
4 to Rs.7 per metric tonne.
In exercise of the said power under section 15 the Government of Gujarat promulgated the Gujarat Minor Minerals Rules, 1966 which are referred to as the Rules as stated above.
