Before the High Court, the .contentions of the appellant were that there was no independent evidence regarding the demand, the messenger who had contacted PW 1 at the 337 behest of the appellant had not been examined, the solitary evidence of PW 1 is insufficient, the explanation offered by the appellant was probable and there is no conclusive evi dence to hold that the appellant. was guilty.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 4(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
The burden resting on the accused person in such a case would not be as light as it is where a presumption is raised under section 114 of Evidence Act and cannot be held to be discharged merely by reason of the fact that the explanation offered by the accused is reasonable and probable.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 22.10.
Of course, it is open to that person to show that though that money was not due to him as legal remuneration it was legally due to him in some other manner or that he had received it under a transaction or an arrangement which was lawful.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by FATHIMA BEEVI, J. This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 27.10.1979 of the High Court of Madras con firming the conviction of the appellant under section 161, I .P.C. and under section 336 5(2) read with section 5(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
The appellant produced the currency notes.
N.V.K. Appeal dismissed.
PW 3, the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1, Venkataswamy, the canteen contractor, as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
It cannot, therefore, be said that there had been consistent explanation for the appellant.
At the trial, the prosecution witnesses supported the case.
When PW 1 emerged, PW 6 along with PW 2 confronted the appellant.
The case of Dipawali gift or return of a loan given to PW 1 has not been even suggested.
P 2 memo had been issued on the basis of the complaint received from the appellant that on getting the explanation from PW 1 he on 18.10.1975 itself passed orders and closed the file.
The words 'unless the contrary is proved ' which occur in this provision make it clear that the presumption has to be rebutted by 'proof ' and not by a bare explanation which is merely plausible.
We find no merit in the appeal.
A.S. Nambiar and K.R. Nambiar for the Appellant.
The latter made a complaint to PW 6 who thereupon arranged a trap.
The decisions of the Court in State of Rajasthan vs Mohamed Habeeb, ; C.I. Ernden vs State of Uttar Pradesh; , and Lohana Kantilal vs State, AIR 1954 Saurashtra 12 1 were referred to.
PW 3, the Principal has averred in unequivocal terms that Ex.
Finally, the appellant was chargesheeted.
125 in the canteen when the appellant started to take food there.
These contentions did not find favour with the High Court.
The prosecution case is that the accused thereafter sent for PW 1, informed him that he would help him in restoring the licence and demanded a bribe of Rs.
