If the civil court in this case had come to the conclusion that there is a relationship of a landlord and a tenant and that the LIC was entitled to recover the rent from the tenants, it will have to pass a decree in favour of the LIC on the basis of the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller.
It was, therefore, not open to the High Court to entertain a collateral attack on the validity of binding nature or correctness of the order of the Court of Small Causes and to consider and determine afresh the issue as to whether the L.I.C. is the owner of the premises as claimed or not.
When a petition under section 4 is filed, the Rent Controller, on the language of section 4 has to decide: (1) whether the applicant is a tenant in, or landlord of, the building and (2) what the fair rent of the premises should be in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
Thirdi.v, even assuming 'the argument of learned counsel to be correct, all that can be said is that, in the second set of proceedings, the tenants could have contended that it was not open to the Court of Small Causes to go into the question of title in view of the decision in the first set of proceedings.
87 of 72 by a common judgment dated 23.10.1972), the contention urged on behalf of the tenants was that, since the subject matter of the lease under exhibit P 1 was only a vacant site, the Rent Controller had no juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect thereof and that, therefore, the claim in the suit for arrears of rent, based on the Rent Controller 's order in respect of the premises covered by exhibit P 1 had to fail.
It also took a technical plea that the decision of the Additional Settlement Officer that the suit land was poramboke and not 'ryoti ' land was final and the Civil Court 's jurisdiction to decide that question was barred under section 64 C of the Tamil Nadu Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948, which ran as follows: "64 C. Finality of orders passed under this Act (1) Any order passed by the Government or other authority under this Act in respect of matters to be determined for the purposes of this Act shall, subject only to any appeal or revision provided by or under this Act, be final.
If a particular matter is one which does not fall within the exclusive jurisdiction of the revenue court, then a decision of a revenue court on such a matter, which might be incidentally given by the revenue court, cannot be bind ing on the parties in a civil court.
The appeal is therefore, dismissed.
Per contra, he may reach the conclusion on the materials before him that the landlord has no title; yet, it seems, if he finds that the applicant is otherwise a landlord and that the grounds on which the tenant 's denial was based were not bona fide, he will have to order eviction.
The fair rent claimed was computed at Rs.2,399.03 per month in respect of item No. 1 as against the rent of Rs.
It has long been held that a question of title in a Small Cause suit can be regarded as incidental only to the substantial issue in the suit and cannot operate 8as res judicata in a subsequent suit in which the question of title is directly raised . .
No. 1 (door No. 2) belonged to the LIC but his order of eviction had been set aside by the appellate court on some other ground.
But, we think, Sri Parasaran is right in saying that, since the Rent Controller has no jurisdiction to entertain an application except by a landlord or a tenant, the ques tion of title to the property is one on which his very jurisdiction depends.
This contention was upheld by the appellate court and the High Court.
It was sought to be argued on behalf of the petitioners that the respondent had no jurisdiction to determine the question as to whether the premises were at one time let out as a whole and then let out in parts as was sought to be contended by the applicants . .
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
We are concerned with the jurisdiction of a civil court.
The second lease deed (Ext.
It was only this limited aspect eviction on the ground of non bona fide denial of title that was under consideration of the Court under section 10(2)(vii) of the Act read with the proviso to section 10(1) and the Court 's observa tions on the question of title were one on a collateral issue.
If there is any dispute which arises between the parties as to whether the particular application falls within the jurisdiction of the tribunal, it is the tribunal which is competent to decide that dispute and determine whether the particular matter falls within its jurisdiction.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 9.3.
There were appeals to the Court of Small Causes.
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
(Item No.1 in Schedule A to the plaint).
as the case may be.
If by an erroneous interpretation of the statute the court holds that it has no jurisdiction, the decision will not, operate as res judicata.
So also, in an application under section 4, the jurisdiction of the Rent Controller is to determine a fair or standard rent for the premises.
They claimed that, under both the lease deeds, what had been leased out to them was only a vacant land and that the superstructure had been built by them.
It would follow from this, therefore, that if notice to quit was necessary it would be merely one of the issues to be decided by the Rent Controller and would not in any way affect his jurisdiction to entertain the applica tion.
The Corporation had formerly filed a petition H.R.C. 867/1963 in respect of these two buildings for fixation of fair rent.
The tenants filed an appeal being O.S.A. No. 62 of 1973.
We do not, therefore, think that the 1969 decision can be an effective answer to the appellant 's contention based on the 1967 decision.
This, he said, is a proposi tion that is borne out on general principles as well as on the provisions of the Rent Control Act.
It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not, in law, create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
Negativing the plea of the plaintiffs, the Court pointed out: (8) xxx xxx
The answer, in our opinion, has to be in the negative.
The respondents denied that the L.I.C. was the landlord or they the tenants in respect of the property.
So far as the first question is concerned, we have no doubt that the Division Bench of the High Court has come to the correct conclusion.
section 19 Decisions which have become final not to be reo pened Any application under section 3 A or section 12, and any application under sub section (2) or subsection (3) or sub section (3 A) of section 10 or under sections 14, 15 or 16, shall be summarily rejected by the authorized officer or the Controller.
An appeal by the tenant also failed but here again the above point was not taken.
This is not the main relief for which the application is filed.
1947 relating to Door No.
After referring to the terms of the sale deed (exhibit P 3), the superstructure constructed on the land was held to have been conveyed to the vendee under the sale deed dated 30 7.
150 per month.
Where a fair rent is fixed by a Controller, the Rent Control Act does not provide for a machinery for recovery of the amount.
The Rent Controller and, on appeal, the Court of Small Causes were therefore, called upon to give their decision on this question which was completely within their statutory jurisdiction and this decision certainly constitutes res judicata between the parties: see also, Explanation VIII to section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
In that case, the Revenue Divisional Officer, in 563 certain earlier proceedings, had held that a particular village was not an "estate" and this had been confirmed by the District Collector and the High Court.
The Supreme Court, however, reversed the judgment of the High Court.
(7) We may lastly refer to the decision of this Court in State of Tamil Nadu vs Ramalinga Samigal Madam and Ors.,
We, therefore, answer the first question posed by us in the affirmative.
The appellant landlord had filed an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act without giving notice under section 111(h) of the (which, in those days, was considered to be a condition precedent even to the filing of an eviction petition under the Rent Control Act) and ob tained an order of eviction.
After the Civil Revision Petitions by the tenant were dismissed, the LIC filed C.S.
In order to operate as res judicata the finding must be one disposing of a matter directly and substantially in issue in the former suit and the issue should have been heard and finally decided by the court trying such suit.
