Amendment of section 9 of Haryana Act 20 of 197.3 For clauses (b) and (bb) of sub section (1) of section 9 of the principal Act, the following clause shall be substituted, namely: "(b) purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B. from any source in the State and uses them in the State in the manufacture of any other goods and either disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the State or dispatches the manufactured goods to a place outside the State in any manner otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of subsection (1) of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956;or.
The proviso to clause (a) was: "Provided that a dealer registered under this Act, shall also be entitled to purchase barley, without payment of sales tax on the authority of his certificate of registra tion, on furnishing to the selling registered dealer, a declaration referred to above, for sale by him in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of section 5 of the ." and that to clause (b) read: "Provided that a dealer registered under this Act, shall also be entitled to purchase, without payment of sales tax, on the authority of his certificate of registration, goods mentioned in clause (b) above, on furnishing to the selling registered dealer a declaration referred to above, for use by him in the manufacture, in the State, of scientific goods and guar gum for the purpose of sale by him in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of sub section (3) of section 5 of the ."
The argument on behalf of the Revenue, which has found favour with the High Court is that section 9(1) exempts only sales made in the course of export within the meaning of section 5(1) of the C.S.T. Act but not those under section 5(3) of the said Act.
Provided that this section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B. Goods on which no tax is leviable: section 6 read with section 15.
Even in such a case if the transport of goods from the assessee 's place of business to the port is in pursuance of the terms of the sale, the movement of the goods would be occasioned by the sale made by the assessee and would be an inter State sale.
Section 6 Section 6, the charging section, read as under: "6.
Incidence of taxation (1) Subject to other provisions of this Act, every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum, Defined in section 7, shall be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of this Act.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that this alternative contention urged by the learned counsel for the assessee has to be accepted and it has to be held that, since the sales effected by the assessees fall within one of the three exempted categories set out in section 9(1)(b), there can be no levy of purchase tax under section 9(1) of the Act.
However, it added a new sub section (3) with retrospective effect from 27.5.
1.4.1976: "or in the course of export out of the territory of India.
The State levied a purchase tax on the raw materials u/s 9(1).
The appeals and petitions are, therefore, allowed.
They are either local sales or inter State sales or export sales.
The 1990 Act also inserted an Explanation 6 to the clause w.e.f.
V. Section 24 section 24 is the next section relevant for our purposes.
XXX XXX XXX Explanation
This contention was accepted by this Court.
The second amendment, which is crucial for the purposes of this case, is the addition at the end of sub clause (ii) of clause (a) above, the words: "within the meaning of sub section (1) of section 5 of the .
After its amendment by Act 44 of 1976, it read thus, w.e.f.
The proceeds of the sale of any goods on the purchase of which tax is leviable under this Act or the purchase value of any goods on the sales of which tax is leviable under this Act, shall not be included in the turnover, but the purchase value of the goods liable to tax under section 9 shall be included.
The court held that the movement of goods outside India was occasioned by the contract between the S.T.C. and the foreign buyer and not by that between the appellant and the S.T.C.
(d) An amendment of 1986 expanded the proviso to section 24(I)(b) by adding "utensils and metal handicrafts" to "scientific goods and guar gum", as in section 9(1) proviso.
The provisoes to section 27(a)(iv), in particular, make a clear contrast between sales falling under sub section (3) and those failing under sub section (1) of section 5 of the C.S.T. Act.
These, then, are the relevant provisions of the Act.
However, this amendment, which has been made both in section 9 and in section 24 by Act 1 of 1988 has not been given any retrospective effect.
He submitted that even if the claim were to be accepted, the assessees would be in no better position.
31.3. 1983 which reads: "(6)
There is no dispute that the assessees have transferred the manufactured goods by way of sale and that these goods have been despatched to various ports of India.
High Court and that the appeals as well as writ petitions before us deserve to be dismissed.
" These amendments were effective from 1.4.1976.
As pointed out by Sri Agarwal, even in Mohd.
It provided that only purchases of declared goods, goods speci fied in 365 Schedule C and goods falling under section 9 would be part of the 'turnover '.
