In fact, if the compromise is valid and binding the alienor respondent No. 2 had no interest in the property to part with in view of the stipulation in the compromise that on receipt of Rs.
Rs 77,124 being the amount paid by the alienees before the Sub Registrar in respect of the sale deeds shall be deposited within the same period in the Trial Court and the alienees of the different sale deeds would be entitled to withdraw the amounts on the basis of the record made by the Sub Registrar on each of the sale deeds.
The question as to recording of the compromise was taken up by the Court and parties have been heard.
1 lakh to Sudarshan Gupta which we have not investigated and to meet the further allegation that some improvements have been made to the property which too we have not gone into, we direct that the mesne profits shall be set off against the same.
One of the stipulation in the compromise deed which has admittedly been signed by the father and his two sons stipulates: "The petitioner has given to the second and third respondents (the two sons) an amount of Rs.
Petition No. 15001 of 1989.
Under orders of this Court security has been furnished for mesne profits.
We direct that the compromise petition shall be accepted and in terms thereof the suit shall be disposed of and the terms of the compromise shall form part of the order to be drawn up in this Court for disposing of the special leave petition.
In view of the fact that there was the allegation of payment of Rs.
From the Judgment and Order dated 20.4.1984 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Appeal
Sudarshan and Anand Babu led claim to the entire property of Subbamma exclusively to each of them under two different wills said to be by subbamma and each contended that the other will was a forged one.
There would be no order for costs.
1 lakh he relinquished his entire interest in the property.
Their possession is without authority of law.
Seshaiah shall pay a sum of Rs.
With a view to settling all equities between the parties and with the consent of Seshiah who is present in Court, and counsel for the sons and after hearing the Advocate for the alienees, we make the following directions: 1.
1 lakh more to Sudarshan Gupta within eight weeks from today.
The alienations are for about a purported consideration of Rs. 4 lakhs.
Seshiah married two wives.
K. Ram Kumar, S.A. Ahmed, Tanweer Abdul and Mohan Pandey for the Respondents.
The alienees have no right created under the alleged sale deeds.
The factum of compromise is not in dispute.
Admittedly, the transfers are pendente lite.
vs Janaki Dei & Ors., AIR (1980) Ori.
