Under the first proviso to Section 11 A it was prescribed that where the said declaration (under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act) has been published before the commencement of the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1984, the award must be made within a period of two years from such commencement.
Appeals against the decision of a learned Single Judge were dismissed by the Karnataka High Court on October 6, 1989, by a Division Bench of that High Court.
Whatever the ultimate effect of the stay orders, in view of the provisions of Section 11 A of the Land Acquisition Act, to which we have already referred 566 earlier, it is beyond dispute that the fact of the stay orders was highly material in the determination of these Special Leave Petitions.
Special Leave Petition Nos.
On September 11, 1985, the petitioners obtained an interim order from this Court directing status quo with regard to the possession of the lands in question in Special Leave Petition No.
There will be no order as to costs of these petitions.
On December 16 17, 1987, two writ petitions were field by the respective petitioners in the Karnataka High Court challenging the acquisition on the ground that the awards were not made within the stipulated time.
If he fails to do so and suppresses material facts, his application is liable to be dismissed.
823 24 of 1990.
R.N. Narasimha Murthy, K.H. Nobin Singh, M. Veerappa and S.N. Bhatt for the Respondents.
294 of 1985 preferred against the order of the Karnataka High Court dated August 14, 1984, with which we are not directly concerned here.
The relevant dates which have to be borne in mind in this connection, are as follows:
S.R. Bhat for the Petitioners.
R.P. SLPs dismissed.
321 & 322 of 1989.
It is well settled in law that the relief under Article 136 of the Constitution is discretionary and a petitioner who approaches this Court for such relief must come with frank and full disclosure of facts.
Thus, the award should have been made within two years from September 20, 1984.
We accordingly dismiss the Special Leave Petitions.
The petitioners were the owners of certain lands which were acquired by the respondents under the provisions of Sections 17 and 19 of the Bangalore Development Act, 1976 (hereinafter referred to as "the Bangalore Act").
That contention was repelled along with certain other contentions in the judgment of the High Court which is sought to be impugned before us.
