It has been, therefore, urged that Section 6(i)(C) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 is not applicable to the case of a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court No prosecution can be launched against a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court under the provisions of the said Act except in the mode envisaged in Article 124, clauses 4 and 5 of the Constitution for removal of the Judge.
It is significant from the above extract in Antulay that for the purpose of grant of sanction under Section 6 of the Act to prosecute the public servant, a 'vertical hierarchy between the authority competent to remove the public servant from that office and the nature of the office held by the public servant against whom sanction is sought ' is clearly envisaged and, therefore, the authority competent to remove the public servant from that office should be vertically superior in the hierarchy in which the office exists having the competence to judge the, action of the public servant before removing the bar by granting sanction.
The power to punish a High Court Judge, if one may so describe it, is to be found only in article 2 18 read with article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitu tion, under which a Judge of the High Court can be removed from his office by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament, supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less then two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
XXX XXX XXX (4)
No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under section 161 (or section 164) or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code, or under sub section (2) (or sub section 3A) of section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction, (a) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of the (Union) and is not removable from his office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government; (b) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of (a State) and is not removable from his 236 office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
Clause (1) of Article 217 provides that every Judge of the High Court shall be appointed by the President after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and in the case of appointment of a Judge Other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court.
This is more so, since the rejection of such an argument would not in any manner jeopardise the provisions of the Act as it would result only in the failure of the attempt to bring the constitutional functionaries such as Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court within the purview of that Act, while the Act would continue to apply to the public servants in general who fall within the scheme of Section 6 of the Act for the purpose of grant of previous sanction for prosecution which is a condition precedent for cognizance of an offence pun ishable under that Act.
A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct (a) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other per son, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in section 161 of the Indian Penal Code, or (b) if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain for himself or for any other person, any valuable thing without consideration or for a con 234 sideration which he knows to be inadequate, from any person whom he knows to have been, or to be, or to be likely to be concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or about to be transacted by him, or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate, or from any person whom he knows to be inter ested in or related to the person so con cerned, or (c) if he dishonestly or fraudulent|y misap propriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do, or (d) if he, by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advan tage (or) (e) if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has, at any time during the period of his office, been in possession, for which the public servant cannot satisfactorily account, of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
(5) Parliament may by law regulate the procedure for the presentation of an address and for the investigation and proof of the misbehaviour or incapacity of a Judge under clause (4).
P.C. and clause (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act.
If it is held that a member of the higher judiciary is not liable to prosecution for an offence under Section 5 on account of the requirement of previous sanction under Section 6, it will follow that he will be immune from ' the prosecution not only under Section 5(1)(e) as is the present case, but also for the other offences under Clauses (a) to (d).
to his known sources of income during that period and that he cannot satisfactorily account for such disproportionate pecuniary resources and property.
Therefore, when the offence is alleged to have been committed the accused was a public servant but by the time the court is called upon to take cognizance of the offence committed by him as public servant, he has ceased to be public servant, no sanction would be necessary for taking cognizance of the offence against him.
The question is as to whether there is some "authority competent" to remove a High Court Judge from his office or not.
with Section 6(1)(c) of the Act in the case of the High Court and Supreme Court Judges.
Section 5 provides: "5(1)
In this case.
If special provisions in the form of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 and Article 2 18 of the Constitution and the special enactment by the Parlia ment under Article 124(5) were provided in the constitution al scheme for Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court, there can be no valid reason to hold that they are governed by the general provisions in addition to these special provisions enacted only for them.
(2) Any public servant who commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine:
For the purposes of this Act, "public servant" means a public servant as defined in Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.
If that be so, the Parliament being the sole arbiter, it is for the Parliament to step in and enact suitable legislation in consonance with the constitutional scheme which provides for preservation of the independence of judiciary and it is not for this Court to expand the field of operation of the existing law to cover 302 the superior Judges by usurping the legislative function of enacting guidelines to be read in the existing law by impli cation, since without the proposed guidelines the existing legislation cannot apply to them.
Previous sanction necessary for prosecution.
If the Act is applicable to Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court, it is obvious that the same must apply also to the Chief Justice of India, the Comptroller and Auditor General and the Chief Election Commissioner.
Criminal misconduct.
In view of the decision by a Constitution Bench in R.S. Nayak vs A.R. Antulay, the correctness of which was not disputed before us, we have to assume for the purpose of this case that no sanction under Section 6 of the Act was required for prosecution of the appellant since cognizance of the offence was taken after the appellant ceased to hold the office of Chief Justice on 7.4.1976 on his retirement.
Clause (c) states that in the case of any other person the sanction would be of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
It has been further urged in this connection that if it is assumed that the President has the power to remove a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court from his office it will do away with the independence of the judiciary and will being the judiciary under the control of the executive indirectly in as much as under Article 74 of the Constitution of India, the President while exercising his executive power has to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers with the Prime Minis ter at the Head, as has been held by this Court in Shamsher Singh & Anr.
But there is no such relationship between the Judges and their appointing authority that is, the Government.
Article 2 18 states that provisions of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 shall apply in relation to a High Court.
It will be convenient, if at this stage, we also read Section Omitting the immaterial clauses, Section 5A is in these terms: "5A. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, no police officer below the rank (a) in the case of the Delhi Special Police Establishment, of an Inspector of Police; (b) in the presidency towns of Calcutta and Madras, of an Assistant Commissioner of Po lice; (c) in the presidency towns of Bombay, of a Superintendent of Police; and (d) elsewhere, of a Deputy Superintendent of Police, shall investigate any offence punishable under Section 161, section 165 or section 165A of the Indian Penal Code or under section 5 of this Act without the order of a Presidency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or make any arrest there for without a warrant: Provided that if a police officer not below the rank of an Inspector of Police is autho rised by the State Government in this behalf by general or special order, he may also investigate any such offence without the order of a Presi 237 dency Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, as the case may be, or make arrest therefor without a warrant: Provided further that an offence referred to in clause (e) of sub section (1) of Section 5 shall not be investigated without the order of a police officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police.
and corruption by public servant.
I agree with Mr. Justice Ray and Mr. Justice Shetty that the appeal should be dismissed.
That has been provided under Section 1 of the .
A Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
The other argument of Shri Sibal is that one of the essential ingredients of the offence of criminal misconduct, defined in Section 5(1)(e) of the Act, which is punishable under Section 5(2) thereof, is the inability of the accused to satisfactorily account for possession of disproportionate assets, which must be evident from the documents annexed to the charge sheet to enable the Special Judge to take cognizance of the offence and this can be possible only if the accused is asked to give his account before filing of the charge sheet.
They are appointed by the President in the exercise of his executive power but they are independent of the Executive.
Application of certain provi sions relating to Supreme Court to High Courts.
Reference was made to the provisions of Articles 124 (2) and 2 17(1).
Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
But the legal burden of proof placed on the accused is not so onerous as that of the prosecution.
Since the order of removal in such a case is to be made by the President, the learned Solicitor General contended that the competent authority to remove such a Judge as required by Section 6(1)(c) is the President and it is in this manner that Section 6(1)(c) is attracted.
(emphasis supplied)
No discussion shall take place in Parliament with respect to the conduct of any Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High Court in the discharge of his duties except upon a motion for presenting an address to the President praying for the removal of the Judge as hereinafter provided.
First, the Judge must be a public servant.
The other two have not been supported before us by counsel for the appellant.
It appears that the framers of the Constitution, while dealing with such constitutional functionaries, contemplated merely their removal from office in the manner provided in Article 124(4) as the only punishment; and a special law enacted by the Parliament under Article 124(5), even for investigation and proof of any misbehaviour alleged against a superior Judge instead of the general law was clearly visualised when the alleged misbehaviour is connected with his office.
In 1953 he was appointed as Assistant Government Pleader and in 1959, the Government Pleader at Madras.
The appellant cannot satisfactorily account for such disproportionate assets.
(2) Where in any trial of an offence punishable under Section 165A of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) or under clause (ii) or sub section (3) of Section 5 of this Act, it is proved that any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing has been given or offered to be given or attempted to be given by an accused person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that he gave or offered to give or attempted to give that gratification or that valuable thing as the case may be as a motive or reward Such as is mentioned in Section 161 of the Indian Penal Code or, as the case may be, without consideration or for a considera tion which he known to be inadequate.
No. more, in our opinion, is required to be stated in the charge sheet.
It is for this reason that the higher.
The authority competent to give prior sanction for prosecution of such persons would be the State Government.
It was urged that the public servant is entitled to an opportunity to explain the disproportionality between the assets and the known sources of income.
The central issue is whether the Judges could be prosecuted for offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 ( 'the Act ').
No doubt, as held in Antulay, no sanction for prosecution under Section 6 is required after the public servant ceases to hold office, but it does not imply that every holder of a public office after ceasing to hold that office is within the purview of the enactment, even though during the tenure in office, only those public servants are 299 within its ambit in whose case sanction under Section 6 must be obtained.
On 1.5. 1969, he was appointed the Chief Justice of the Madras High Court, from which office he retired on 7.4.1976.
nothing is an offence which is done by a Judge when acting judicially in the exercise of any power which is, or which in good faith he believes to be, given to him by law".
" The expression "Every Judge" used in the third category of Section 21 indicates all Judges and all Judges of all Courts.
vs State of Punjab, ; and S.P. Gupta & Ors. etc.
That was not the issue in that case.
In other words, Section 6 applies only in cases where there is a vertical hierarchy of public offices and the public servant against whom sanction is sought is under the sanctioning authority in that hierarchy.
" The relevant provisions of the Constitution of India are as under: 12 1.
I may also at this stage refer to the recommendations made by the Santhanam Committee which preceded the 1964 amendment in the Act.
The expression 'authority competent to remove ' under Section 6(1)(c),
In view of the majority judgments, the appeal is dismissed.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub sections (1) and (2) the court may decline to draw the presumption referred to in either of the said sub sections, if the gratification or thing aforesaid is, in its opinion, so trivial that no inference of corruption may fairly be drawn.
There is no such requirement under Section, 6.
That authority alone would be competent to judge whether on the facts alleged, there has been an abuse or misuse of office held by the public servant.
It has to be acquired for which means are necessary.
But we know of no law providing protection for Judges from Criminal prosecution.
The Act was intended to cover all categories of public servants.
The President shall act in accordance with advice given by the Chief Justice of India If the Chief Justice of India.
The charge sheet is nothing but a final report of police officer under Section 173(2) of the Cr.
So far offences punishable under Sections 161, 164 and 165 of the Indian Penal Code are concerned they are also subject to such previous sanction.
One is the power of Parliament and the other is the jurisdiction of a Criminal Court.
It is a settled law that the authority entitled to grant sanction must apply its mind to the facts of the case and all the evidence collected before forming an opinion whether to grant sanction or not.
It has been urged by the Solicitor General as well as the Additional Solicitor General that the Judges of the High Court cannot be said to be exempted from prosecution in respect of offences provided in the Prevention of Corruption Act.
It is for the prosecution to prove that the accused or any person on his behalf, has been in possession of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
It has been urged further that under Article 361, the President and the Governor have been given protection from being answerable to any court for the exercise and perform ance of the powers and duties of his office or for any act done or purporting to be done by him in the exercise and performance of those powers and duties.
Article 124 provides, so far as material, as follows: "124.
The real question, therefore, is: Whether these constitutional functionaries were intended to be included in the definition of 'public servant ', as defined in the Act, and the existing enacted law is to that effect.
It is for the Parliament to decide whether that stage has reached in the superior judiciary when legal sanction alone can be the remedy for maintenance of public confidence in the integrity of the superior judiciary without which independence of the judiciary would itself be in jeopardy.
Restriction on discussion in the Legislature.
There shall be a Comptroller and Auditor General of India who shall be appoint ed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal and shall only be removed from office in like manner and on the like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme Court.
We will have an occasion to consider the provisions of Section 6 in detail and for the present we may deal only with the condition prescribed by the Section for a Court to take cognizance of an offence
Section 4(1) of the states that at the conclusion of the investigation, the Committee shall submit its report to the Speaker or, as the case may be, to the Chairman, stating therein its findings 'on each of the charges separately with such observations on the whole case as he thinks fit.
Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code states that a public servant denotes a person falling under any of the descrip tion mentioned therein: "Third Every Judge including any person empowered by law to discharge, whether by himself or as a member of any body of persons any adjudicarory functions. "
Reference may also be made to Section 19 of the IPC, in which "Judge" is defined.
The Investigating Officer is only required to collect material to find out whether the offence alleged appears to have been committed.
But that is not the position in the case of removal of a Judge.
It is well known and is also clear from the Report of the Santhanam Committee that the rules applicable to the public servants in general regulating their conduct require them to furnish periodical information of their assets which form a part of their service record.
The need for his prosecution was not visualised and, therefore, not provided for in the existing law.
It is reasonable to assume that while rendering the decision in S.P. Gupta, 296 where in the question of dealing with some Judges against whom allegations of lack of integrity and corruption also were made and the question was of the machinery available for dealing with them, the learned Judges could not have been unaware of the provisions of the Act while taking the view that the only legal machinery available under the existing law is that in accordance with clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 of the Constitution.
The removal would bring about cessation of interrelation between the office and abuse by the holder of the office.
The application of the ejusdem generis rule is only to general word following words which are less general, or the general word following particular and specific words of the same nature.
Clause (a) of Section 6(1) covers public servants employed in connection with the affairs of the Union.
It does not appear to be so.
Parliament cannot therefore be the proper authority for granting sanction for the prosecution of a Judge.
But we do not think that the decision requires reconsideration.
No further order from any other authority for their removal is necessary.
The first concerns with the ingredients of the offence alleged and the requirements of the charge sheet filed against the appellant.
It is to achieve this end that the higher judiciary has been vested with the power to punish for its own contempt.
So far as the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court are concerned, it was contended that there is no relationship of master and servant between them and the Government.and clause (c) of Section 6(1) is inapplicable to them.
The question is whether they could be brought within the purview of clause (c) of Section 6(1).
(2) No criminal proceedings whatso ever shall be instituted or continued against the President, or the Government of a State, in any court during his term of office.
Such a law in the form of the and the rules framed thereunder has been enacted.
But it is essential that the value of 'movable property should be stated in the statement of assets and liabilities.
Shri Kapil Sibal, learned counsel for the appellant advanced two arguments only.
An answer in the negative will be inconsistent with Article 124 Clauses 4 and 5 read with Article 2 18 of the Constitution.
All the same I deem it fit to record the same with my reasons for taking a different view.
The question of grant of sanction under Section 6 for the prosecution of a Judge or Chief Justice of a High Court for an offence punishable under Section 5(2) of the Act is, therefore, of considerable importance to decide the main question in this appeal.
Clause (e) creates a statutory offence which must be proved by the prosecution.
In the course of the investigation, he may examine the accused.
For the purpose of deciding this case, we have to see the law as it now exists.
The definition of 'public servant ' given in the Act includes 'every Judge '.
Unless the charge sheet contains such an averment, counsel contended that under law an offence under clause (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act is not made out.
It was in his own name and in the names of his wife Smt.
The Chief Justice of India in consulta tion with the Chief Justices of the High Courts should arrange for a thorough inquiry into the incidence of corruption, among the judiciary, and evolve, in consultation with the Central and State Governments, proper measures to prevent and eliminate it.
We did not consider the judici ary to be included in our terms of reference.
Section 21 of the IPC while defining "public servant" has denoted as many as twelve categories of per sons.
The only mode of removal of a Judge from his office on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity is laid down in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124.
That is why the Legislature clearly provided that that authority alone would be competent to grant sanction which is entitled to remove the public servant against whom sanction is sought from the office."
Establishment and constitution of Supreme Court.
Two other provisions are more material namely section 5 and section 6 and must be set out in full.
The scheme of the exist ing law to deal with such situations was considered at length and it was also held that even the power to transfer under Article 222 of the Constitution to another High Court could not be exercised for these reasons.
It is, therefore, time that all the constitutional functionaries involved in the process of appointment of superior Judges should be fully alive to the serious impli cations of their constitutional obligation and be zealous in its discharge in order to ensure that no doubtful appoint ment can be made even if sometime a good appointment does not go through.
Power general ly is not conferred on an individual person.
The Judges are not bound nor do they under take to obey any order of the Government within the scope of their duties.
It is as a result of the 1964 amend ment that clause (e) was inserted in Sub section (1) of Section 5 of the Act to make the possession of dispropor tionate assets by a public servant by itself a substantive offence of criminal misconduct, while prior to this amend ment such a provision was merely a rule of evidence con tained in Sub section (3) of Section 5 as initially enacted which was then available only to prove the offence of crimi nal misconduct defined in clauses (a) to (d) of Sub section (1) of Section 5.
If the chief Justices of opinion that it is not a fit case for grant of sanction for prosecution of the Judge concerned the Presi dent shall not accord sanction to prosecute the Judge;This will save the Judge concerned from unnecessary harassment as weal as from frivolous prosecution against him as suggested by my learned brother Shetty, J. in his judgment.
It is, therefore, difficult to appreciate such an argument when the question for our decision is only of construction of the legislation as enacted to determine the field of its operation.
Section 6 creates a bar to the court from taking cogni zance of offences therein enumerated except with the previous sanction of the authority set out in clause (a) (b) & (c) of sub sec.
Perhaps the setting up of vigilance organisations under the direct control of the Chief Justice of every High Court coordinated by a Central Vigilance Officer under the Chief Justice of India may prove to be an appropriate method.
The trial of Criminal Case
The provision for sanction is like the keystone in the arch of the enactment.
There is still another reason indicating that the interpretation suggested on behalf of the appellant should not be accepted.
" On the burden of proof under Section 5(1)(e) of the Act, learned Judge said: "The expression "burden of proof" has two distinct meanings; (1) the legal burden i.e. the burden of establishing the guilt, and (2) the evidentia1 burden, i.e. the burden of leading evidence.
The President alone could make that order.
He must state whether it is satisfactory or not.
This appeal is by a certificate granted by the High Court under Articles 132(1) and 134(1)(c) of the Constitu tion of India in view of the important question of law involved for decision.
Since, however, opinions have been expressed.
Section 6 provides that if the report of Committee contains a finding that the Judge is not guilty of any misbehaviour or does not suffer from any incapacity, then, no further step be taken in either House of Parliament Section 6(2)
Eluthai Ammal and his two sons Shri V. Suresh and Shri V. Bhaskar.
On 24 February 1976, the CBI registered a case against him with issuance of a First Information Report which was filed in one of the Courts at New Delhi.
Thus, even for the procedure for investigation into any misbehaviour of a Judge as well as its proof, a law enacted by the Parliament under Article 124(5) is envisaged in the constitutional scheme.
Reference may now be made to certain statutory provi sions on the basis of which the point has to be decided.
I agree with the conclusion of my learned brother Shetty, J. The appeal is, therefore, dismissed.
He must voluntarily withdraw from judicial work and await the outcome of the criminal prosecution.
It was also pointed out that the object served in this manner was the greater public interest to preserve independence of judiciary and not to protect the corrupt Judge who was an exception.
The learned Judge said that in view of Article 20(3) the Investigating Officer has no power to compel the accused to give his explanation for his dispro portionate assets, but he must necessarily ask the public servant for an account.
Bribery is a form of corruption.
This brings us to the end of the second question and takes us on to the first question.
He joined the Madras Bar in 1941.
If there is now a felt need to provide for such a situation, the remedy lies in suitable parliamentary legislation for the purpose preserving the independence of judiciary free from likely executive influ ence while providing a proper and adequate machinery for investigation into allegations of corruption against such constitutional functionaries and for their trial and punish ment after the investigation.
It was further alleged that he has committed offences under Section 5(2) read with clauses (b)(d) and (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act.
Article 61 pro vides procedure for removal of the President of India.
The Act had already been made when the Constitution was framed and the amendment made in the Act in 1964 was after the experience for some time of the functioning of the judiciary under the Constitu tion.
The power to remove them is vested in Parlia ment by the process analogous to impeachment.
The question, therefore, arises who is the author ity competent to grant sanction.
What do we have here?
Where there is relationship of master and servant the master would be in commanding position.
The power to give sanction for prosecution can be con ferred on any authority.
That competent authority alone would know the nature and functions discharged by the public servant holding the office and whether the same has been abused or misused.
Article 67(b) of the Constitution provides that the Vice President may be removed from his office by a resolution of the Council of States passed by a majority of all the then members of the Council and agreed to by the House of People.
In this case, we consider it no were opportunity: it is a duty.
Nothing more need be stated in the report 'of the Investigating Officer.
If these two requirements are com plied with, a Judge cannot escape from the operation on the Act.
They argued that there is no immunity to the superior Judges as in the case of the President and the Governor under Article 36 1 of the Constitution and, therefore, there was no reason to exclude to superior Judges from the purview of the Act.
" The clause (4) is in the negative terms.
Mr. Tulsi, learned Additional Solicitor General, on the other hand, emphasised on the role of the President in relation to removal of a Judge.
No single person or authority is competent to take even cognizance of any allegation of misconduct of a Judge, or to take legal action for his removal.
Due emphasis must, therefore, be laid on prevention even while taking curative measures.
It would follow that where the office held by the public servant is not a part of a verti cal hierarchy in which there is an authority above the public 'servant in that hierarchy, by the very scheme of Section 6 it can have no application and holder of such office who does not have any vertical superior above him in the absence of any such hierarchy cannot be within the ambit of the enactment, the Act not being envisaged or enacted for holder of such public office.
The discretion to prosecute public servant is taken away from the prosecuting agency and is vested in the authority which is competent to remove the public servant.
(2) Where for any reason whatsoever any doubt arises whether the previous sanction as re quired under sub section (1) should be given by the Central or State Government or any other authority, such sanction shall be given by that Government or authority which would have been competent to remove the public servant from his office at the time when the offence was alleged to have been committed.
The competent authority may either allow the prosecution to go on in a Court of law or subject him to a departmental enquiry or subject him to both concurrently or consecutive ly.
It appears that for a rare aberrant at that level, unless he resigned when faced with such a situation, removal from office in accordance with Article 124(4) was envisaged as the only legal sanction.
There is nothing strange about the above view since the scheme in some other countries also appears to be the same.
Its different branches including the legislature, judiciary and the executive are intended to perform different assigned important functions.
It will be useful to refer to the relevant provisions of the .
The desirability of enacting such a law applicable to them, it was strenuously urged at the hearing, would be a matter primarily for the Parliament to consider in case the existing law as enacted does not apply to them.
But these safeguards may not be adequate.
He should be taken into confidence if he is willing to cooperate.
Therefore at the time of filing the FIR the appellant ceases to be a public servant and so no sanction under Sec.
Sub article 2 of Article 124 further provides that every Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts in the States as the President may deem necessary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of sixty five years.
There are Rules called the Judges (Inquiry) Rules, 1969 formed under the Judges (En quiry) Act prescribing procedure for holding an inquiry against the Judge.
If these facts are proved the section makes it obligatory for the Court to presume that the accused person is guilty of crimi nal misconduct in the discharge of his official duty, unless the contrary is proved by the accused that he is not so guilty.
Counsel urged that a separate Parliamentary law to deal with the criminal misconduct of Judges of superior courts consistent with the constitutional scheme for their removal could be enacted and such a legislation alone would ensure judicial independence and not the present enactment.
His approach however, is to limit the operation of clause (c) only to Judges of the Subordinate judiciary.
It is only to protect the honest public servants from frivolous and vexatious prosecution.
A trial without a valid sanction where one is necessary under section 6 has been held to be a trial without jurisdiction by the court.
6(1)(c) of the said act is necessary.
It seems to us that these observations were not intended to lay down the law that the authority competent to grant sanction for prosecution of public serv ant should be vertically superior in the hierarchy in which the office of the public servant exists.
The construction which would promote the general legislative purpose underlying the provision in question, is to be preferred to a construction which would not.
The charge sheet inter alia states that the appellant after assuming.
But that is not the same thing to state that there is no offence till the public servant is able to account for the excess of assets.
The matter was heard by a full bench of the High Court which dismissed the application by order dated 27.4. 1979 according to the majority opinion of Natarajan and Mohan, JJ.
In the circumstances now obtain ing in the country, the immovable property return has ceased to have much significance.
In a way, the second argument of Shri Sibal also is connected with his first argument.
There is no escape from the conclusion that the gross misbehaviour of corruption of a Judge must undoubtedly fall within the ambit or Article 124(5) justifying his removal in the manner provided in Article 124(4).
If there is one principle which runs through the entire fabric of the Constitution, it is the principle of the rule of law and under the Constitution, it is the judiciary which is entrusted with the task of keeping every organ of the State within the limits of the law and thereby making the rule of law meaningful and effective.
Interpretation.
Parliament has no part to play in the matter of appointment of Judges except that the Executive is responsible to the Parliament.
The appellant, K. Veeraswami, a former Chief Justice of the Madras High Court filed an application under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Proce dure, 1973 (Criminal M.P. No. 265 of 1978) to quash the proceedings in C.C.
If the community loses its faith in the courts, their very existence will cease to have any meaning.
Judiciary has a duty to dispense justice between person and person as also between person and State itself.
In this regard counsel sought to support the views expressed by Balasubramanyan, J., in his dissenting judgment.
They are liable to be removed for proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
He has however, differed on three points out of which one alone need be mentioned.
It is farthest from our mind that a Judge of the Supreme Court or that of the High Court will be immune from prosecu tion for criminal offences committed during the tenure of his office under the provisions of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
In my considered view laying down guidelines to be implicitly obeyed, if they find no place in the existing enactment and to bring the superior Judges within the purview of the existing law on that basis, would amount to enacting a . new law outside the scope of the existing law and not merely construing it by supplying the deficiencies to make it workable for achieving the object of its enactment.
The Committee collected a lot of material from the public relating to the nature of corruption in the administration.
Before parting with the case, we may say a word more.
He held that post till 20 February 1960 when he was elevated to the Bench as a perma nent Judge of the Madras High Court.
Nobody can deny this basic essence of independence of judiciary.
But jewellery constitute important assets and if excluded from the definition of movable property, the balance sheet submitted by the Government servant may not set out the true picture."
During his tenure as the Judge and Chief Justice he was said to have acquired assets disproportionate to the known source of income.
because Sections 161, 164, 165 IPC and Sec.
It is signifi cant to note that Article 124(4) speaks of "removal from his office", and Section 6 of the Act uses similar language.
(See: Santhanam Committee Re port, paras 2.12,2.15 and 2.16).
Nor it can be regarded as con trary to Article 21 of the Constitution as contended for the appellant.
The result will be serious.
Section 77 states that ?
For, in neither case, were the two judges found guilty of an indictable offence.
We gave our fullest consideration to the questions raised.
The Legislature has advisedly used the expression "satisfactorily account".
All these provisions are still there except the term 'in the discharge of his duties '.
: Provided further that any other Election Commissioner or a Regional Commis sioner shall not be removed from office except on the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner.
In my view since the question relates to the continuance of a high constitutional functionary like the Additional Judge of High Court it would be jeopardising his security and judicial inde pendence if action is taken on the basis or merely opinion material.
Section 6, with which we are concerned indeed, requires to be liberally construed.
In this context, it would not be out of place to mention that this unfortunate situation has also another dimension.
It indicates the authorities without whose sanction a public servant cannot be prosecut ed.
Counsel seems to be focussing too much only on one part of clause (e) of Section 5(1).
(R.R. Chari vs State of U.P., and S.N. Bose vs State of Bihar),
This power to remove by impeachment or address, a person holding office during good behaviour, is an essential counterpart to the independence secured to the holders of high office by making their tenure one of good behaviour instead of at pleasure.
It must receive comprehen sive meaning unless there is positive indication to the contrary.
Undoubtedly, respect for the judiciary and its public credibility and dignity has to be maintained in order to ensure respect for the Judges in public and also for the decisions rendered by the judges.
The only result is that in case such a legislation for superior Judges also is considered necessary at this point of time, the Parliament can perform its function by enacting suitable legislation, it being a virgin field of legislation.
I am unable to sub scribe to this view.
It is expanding beyond dispute settling and interstitial law making.
The Investigating Officer is required to consider his expla nation and the charge sheet filed by him must contain such averment.
The two matters the prosecution and removal should not, therefore, be treated to be separate and unconnected with each other.
The patchwork of proposing guidelines suggested by the learned Solicitor General apart from being an impermissible judicial exercise, also does not present a complete and harmonious picture and fails to provide answers to several obvious querries which arise.
Further, no reports need be obtained from those Government servants who have no opportunity to enrich themselves by unlawful means.
" But we cannot accept the contention urged for the appellant that clause (c) should be read in "ejusdem generis" to clauses (a) and (b) of Section 6(1) of the Act.
It is not a penal provision but a measure of protection to public serv ants in the penal enactment.
A large number of cases are finally decided at the stage of the subordinate judiciary.
Thus, the definition of a public servant is very wide enough to include Judges of the Supreme Court as well as Judges of the High Court.
However, it is just not throwing some doubt on the prosecution version.
To quote his own words (at 729): "The Preamble indicates that the Act was passed as it was expedient to make more effec tive provisions for the prevention of bribery and corruption.
Since I do not find any merit in any of the points urged on behalf of the appellant this appeal is dismissed.
They hold office till they attain the age of superannuation.
Not to have a corrupt Judge or a Judge who has misbehaved is unquestionably in public inter est but at the same time preserving judicial independence is of the highest public inter est.
The Committee submitted its report on 31st March 1964.
Superintendence, direction and control of elections to be vested in an Elec tion Commission.
Section 6 prohibits Courts from taking cognizance of an offence unless certain condition is complied with.
The Committee attaches great impor tance to the changes recommended in the exist ing Rule 15 relating to the acquisition and disposal of property by Government servants.
Therefore, integrity of the judiciary is of paramount importance even for the proper functioning of the Central Govern ment.
while Balasubrahmanyan, J. dissent ed.
This procedure may be contrary to the well known principle of 260 criminal jurisprudence laid down in Woolmington vs Director of Public Prosecution, ; that the burden of proof is always on the prosecution and never shifts to the accused person.
In adopting the other view I do not see any difficul ty created either by the scheme or the language of the Act or by any constitutional provision.
(Tulzapurkar, J. ) (pp.
It may be noted that before the High Court every conceivable point was argued.
It is, therefore, not right to say that previous sanction for his prosecution cannot be made available.
If the Legislatures are held to have powers to create offence for which Judges could be tried in ordi nary criminal Courts then, it may affect the very independ ence of the Judiciary and the basic structure of the Consti tution.
On no other occasion the con duct of a Judge in the discharge of duties could be the subject matter of discussion in the two Houses of Parlia ment.
The subordinate judici ary, therefore, also needs the same independence which is essential for the higher judiciary.
The standards of judicial behaviour, both on and off the Bench, are normally extremely high.
Baldly put, the question is: Should an Additional Judge whose misbeha viour or lack of integrity has come to the fore he continued as an Additional Judge or confirmed as a Permanent Judge?
The President exercises his powers by and with the advice of his Council of Ministers.
But a Judge must keep himself absolutely above suspicion" to preserve the impartiality and independence of the judiciary.
The resolution passed in accordance with the procedure prescribed under the respective provi sions for removing the President, Vice President and the Speaker, will ipso facto operate against those authorities.
vs President of India and Ors. , AIR 1982 (SC) 149.
It is significant that even the , was enacted under Article 124(5) of the Constitution much later and after the 1964 amendment of the Act.
These directions, in our opinion, would allay the apprehension of all concerned that the Act is likely to be misused by the Executive for collateral purpose.
It follows that the public servant falling within the purview of the Act must invariably fall within one of the three clauses in Sub section (1) of Section 6.
This report is an intimation to the magis trate that upon investigation into a cognizable offence the investigating officer has been able to procure sufficient evidence for the Court to inquire into the offence and the necessary information is being sent to the Court.
The appellant filed a petition under Section 482 Cr.
if it is determined in favour of the appel lant, the first becomes academic and wc may conveniently leave it out.
Even that immunity has been limited during their term of office.
In our country, the Judges of higher Judiciary are safe and secure.
These rules differ from place to place and are amended from time to time according to the changing exigencies.
The confidence reposed in them by the framers of the Constitution has been betrayed to this extent.
The nature of transacting business or proceeding in each House renders it impractica ble.
The learned Judge has dealt with the ingredients of the offence under clause (e) of Section 5(1) with which the appellant was charged.
Similarly the President appoints the Judges of the Supreme Court.
However, that is the price the entire community has to pay if its internal checks in the form of moral and social sanction are found deficient and inadequate to meet the situation which legal sanction alone can prevent.
P.C. to quash that criminal proceedings before the High Court he contended that the proceedings initiated against him were unconstitutional, wholly without jurisdiction, illegal and void.
In Craies on Statute Law.
judiciary was treated differently in the 306 Constitution indicating the great care and attention be stowed in prescribing the machinery for making the appoint ments.
To be able to perform its duties effectively the Judges have to act "without fear or favour, affection or ill will".
It enables the Court to raise a presumption of guilt of the accused in certain circumstances.
Explanation.
Obviously, the Chief Jus tice of India cannot be involved in the process relating to them and there is none else to fill that role in that situa tion.
The object underlying such provision Was to save the public servant from the harassment of frivolous or unsubstantiated allegations.
Since the President of the United States who is the, highest executive authority of the State, an impeach ment has been provided for and in fact, President Johnson was impeached in 1867 for high crimes and misdemeanours.
That does not however, follow that the Judges of superi or Courts are entitled to be excluded from the scope of the Act as contended for the appellant.
(Para. 12.2)
Even Lord Becon, the most gifted mind of the English Renaissance, acclaimed philosopher and the best legal brain was not spared from the punishment for accepting bribes.
Criminal Appeal No.
It is indeed unfor tunate that this question should at all arise for judicial determination.
unless construed in this manner, will foul with the construction made on Section 6 andits scheme in the Antulay decision.
In recent years in some countries, there were instances which provoked a strong debate on the subject and different remedies were advocated to deal with the situation.
But it is necessary to remind ourselves that the concept of independence of the judiciary is not limited only to independence from execu tive pressure or influence but it is a much wider concept which takes within its sweep independence from many other pressures and prejudices.
In a letter dated 18th December, 1947, to the Prime Minister, Pt.
By that age the personality is fully developed and the propensities and background of the appointee is well known.
The fact remains that while according sanction to prosecute under Section 6 of the Act, the competent authority has to satisfy itself about the public servant 's inability to satisfactorily account for possession of dis proportionate assets.
He cannot be convicted and pun ished.
(See clause (5) of Article 324 of the Constitution.
The main plank of the argument regarding sanction is, therefore, non existent.
He has power over the employee not only to direct what work the servant is to do, but also the manner in which the work is to be done.
All that is required is to lay down certain guidelines lest the Act may be misused.
Comptroller and Auditor General of India.(1)
Such a construc tion has undoubtedly to be avoided.
and so he ceased to be a public serv ant on the date of lodging the FIR against him by the CBI.
(Sardar Patel 's Correspondence, 1945 50, edited by Durga Das, Vol.
Before closing this chapter I would again repeat that this issue is not arising in the present case and will have to be considered and finally decided only when it directly arises.
It is the holding of the office which gives an opportunity to use it for corrupt motives.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RAY, J. I have had the advantage of deciphering the two draft judgments prepared by my learned brothers Shetty and Verma, JJ.
In this sub section, the expressions "bank" and "bankers ' books" shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Bankers ' Books Evidence Act, 189 1 ( 18 of 1891).
It has stated, among others that 'a further category should be added to include all persons discharging adjudica tory functions under any Union or State Law for the time being in force. '
Establishment and constitution of Su preme Court XXXXX XXXXX XXXXX (4)
Another point that was consid ered by the Committee was whether jewellery should be included within the definition of movable property.
However, the question having arisen we are bound to give our opinion.
It is dependant on certain steps to be taken as mentioned)in the Article through human agency.
This approach is in accord with the policy underlying Sec.
The Fourth term of reference made to the Committee reads: "to suggest changes in law which would ensure speedy trial of cases of bribery, corrup tion and criminal misconduct, and make the law otherwise more effective."
It also aims to protect honest public servants from harassment by prescribing that the investigation against them could be made only by police officials of particular status and by making the sanction of the Government or other appropriate officer a pre condition for their prosecution.
Let us take a case where there is a positive finding recorded in such a proceeding that the Judge was habitually accepting bribe, and on that ground he is removed from his office.
Both are mutually exclusive.
We have examined and re examined the questions before reaching the conclusion.
Without discussion, it would be difficult for Parlia ment to make an objective judgment with regard to grant of sanction for prosecution.
As the commons acquired direct control over ministers, there was no need to employ the cumbersome machinery of impeachment and there has been no impeachment since 1805.
In a number of national systems one can also find the provision of criminal sanctions for certain acts or omissions that are typical only of the administration of Justice, such as deni de justice, or wilful abuse of the judicial office.
That for the period between 1 May 1969 to 24 February 1976, he was in possession of the pecuniary resources and property disproportionate by Rs.6.41,416.36 to the known sources of income over the same period.
We agree with counsel for the appellant that Parliament could not have been intended to be the sanctioning authority under clause (c) of Section 6(1).
The first part of clause (e) of Section 5(1) as seen earlier relates to the proof of assets possessed by the public servant.
They are various and varied.
No doubt for the judicial community in general it would be a sad day to become suspect needing such a legislation to keep it on the right track.
King James however, liberated him from prison, remitted his fine, and pardon him fully (The Corrupt Judge by Joseph Borkin 1962 ed.
In fact, the very need to read the proposed guidelines in the exist ing law by implication is a clear indication that the law as it exists does not apply to them.
" The soundness of the reasoning in Wasudeo Ramachandra Kaidalwar case (supra) has been doubted.
We cannot, therefore, simplify the problem by referring to the aforesaid Articles.
I would rather b.e a conscientious lone dissenter than a troubled conformist.
I do not think this basic assumption is correct.
" The only exception made in the Constitution for discussion on the conduct of a Judge is when the motion is taken up for his removal.
it is stated that "the distinction between a strict and a liberal construction has almost disappeared with regard to all classes of statutes, so that all statutes, 247 whether penal or not, are now construed by substantially the same rules . .
Protection of President and Governors and Rajpramukhs.
The condition prescribed therein is the previous sanction of a competent authority.
Nine specific terms of references were made to the Committee.
Clause (c) is independent of and separate from the preceding two clauses.
Nor can the rules relat ing to disclosure by some Govt.
As observed by this Court in Satya Narain Musadi and Ors.
It can also not be overlooked that the Santhanam Commit tee Report did not consider the judiciary within its purview and it merely made certain recommendations to devise a machinery involving the Chief Justice of India to deal with the cases of errant Judges.
That apprehension in our over litigious society seems to be not unjustified or unfounded.
But as these small transac tions may cumulatively be sizable and have a big effect on his financial position, the purpose will 285 be served only by obtaining a periodical balance sheet.
P. C. against Judge of the High Court, Chief Justice of High Court or Judge of the Supreme Court unless the Chief Justice of India is consulted in the matter.
and to have the public confi dence thereof.
The charge sheet also gave particulars on the basis of which the disproportion in assets was alleged.
It was to overcome this situation that this Court in Sam path Kumar suggested ways and means to overcome those infirmities to achieve the object of enactment of that legislation and thereby make the legisla tion workable as a 274 valid piece of legislation.
The anomaly involved in such situations 269 can be satisfactorily resolved by combining the two matters and getting clearance from the Parliament.
In view of the significance of the point, I record my respectful dissent reassured by the observations of Hughes that 'unanimity which is merely formal, which is recorded at the expense of strong, con flicting views, is not desirable in a court of last resort, whatever may be the effect on public opinion at the time.
The State is an organisation committed to public good; it is not an end in itself.
920 21) " . .
A single dishonest judge not only dis 263 honours himself and disgraces his office but jeopardizes the integrity of the entire judicial system.
These may be re quoted here for readyreference: "124.
It is better that their independence should be maintained and recognised than that 270 unanimity should be secured through its sacrifice.
The details of properties and pecu niary resources of the appellant also have been set out in clear terms.
