The grounds on which the vires of the provisions is attacked are that the section gives an unguided, unchanelised and arbitrary power to the State Government to include any substance as poison for the purpose of restriction to be imposed on the posses sion for sale and sale of the same.
It is in exercise of this power Rule 13 was amended by substituting the old Rule by the following Rule: "13 (1) All poisons kept for sale by any licence holder under these rules (except those kept by a chemist, druggist or compounder for the purchase of dispensing or compounding in compliance with the prescription of medical or veterinary practitioner) shall be kept in a box, almirah, room or building (according to the quantity maintained), which shall be secured by lock and key and in which no sub stance shall be placed other than poisons, possessed in accordance with a licence granted under the Act, and each poison shall .be kept within such box, almirah, room or building in a separate closed receptacle of glass, metal or earthenware.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, the petitioners have questioned the con stitutional validity of Section 5 of the (12 of 1919) (hereinafter called 'the Act ').
Later when Delhi Poisons Rules, 1926 were made in exercise of the powers under the Act those list of substances were included in the list enumerated in Rule 2 thereof.
Every such room building and every such receptacle shall be marked with the word 'poison ' in red character both English and vernacular, with the name of the 'poison '.
Presumption as to specified poisons: Any substance specified as a poison in a rule made or notification issued under this Act shall be deemed to be a poison for the purpose of this Act.
The Act is intended to regulate the importation, possession and sale of poisons.
Though in the beginning the petitioners were contending that in substance manufactured by them did not come within Rule 2(x)(2) and there were some correspondence in this regard, when the competent authority held that the substance manufactured by the petitioners would come within the definition of 'thinner ' as contained in Rule 2(x)(2) of the Rules, the petitioners did not question the finding on any material.
It has become a notorious fact, which we can even take judicial notice of, that the substance known as 'thinner ' as it is or mixing with some other substances are taken as intoxicating spirits endangering the life.
If the Government thought in the circumstances that the posses sion or sale of the same is to be regulated it could not be said that they have no power to regulate.
Any substance which is used for purposes mentioned therein can definitely be declared as poison.
A law in such circumstance can regulate the trade.
and not all solubles. "
That Section enables the State Government to make Rules generally to carry out the purposes and objects of the Act.
In exercise of this power by the Notification No.
" We are not impressed with the argument that any require ment in this Rule is unreasonable or offends the petition ers ' right to carry on any trade or business.
by its own inherent qualities,. or destroying life?
In many cases deaths have also occurred due to drinking such substance.
Rules were amended in 1973 and duly notified as required by the Act.
Rule nisi is discharged.
Kapil Sibal, Additional Solicitor General, Ms. A. Subha shini and K. Swamy for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by V. RAMASWAMI, J.
The writ petition accordingly fails and it is dismissed.
Under this term would fall anything calcu lated to destroy life.
677 of 1988.
F. 10/44/72 fin.
No order as to costs.
A substance may be a deadly poison or a valuable medicine according to how and how much is taken.
