But it was contended on behalf of the Revenue that the first proviso to section 24(1) of the Indian Act not only affected the generality of the main enactment but also introduced an addendum that where the profits of the business arose in what was British India in the case of the Indian Act or what was Travancore State in the case of the Travancore Act and the losses under the head business were sustained in an Indian State or in the latter case in any other Indian State or British India, these losses could not by virtue of the proviso be deducted from profits made in British India or Travancore State as the case may be.
It is only necessary to set out section 32(1) of the Travancore Act and the proviso which correspond to section 24(1) and proviso (i) of the Indian Act and which are necessary for the decision of the appeals before us: S.32(1) " Where any assessee sustains a loss of profits or gains in any year under any of the heads mentioned in Section 9 (Section 6) he shall be entitled to have the amount of loss set off against this income, profits or gains under any other head in that year:
It is significant that in sections 2(13) and (5) of the Indian Act of 1918 corresponding to sections 2(15) and 6 of the Indian Act of 1922 the word used was" income " which in the latter Act was expanded into " income, profits and gains ".
In our view the question referred to the High Court which is common to the two appeals was rightly answered in favour of the assessee.
(4)[1950] (5) 269 argument does not take note of the definition of total income total world income ' and chargeability of total income under section 3 or the provisions of section 4 where in the case of a resident 'total income ' includes income, profits and gains accruing within or without I British India.
It has to operate in the same field and if the language of the main enactment is clear it cannot be used for the purpose of interpreting the main enactment or to exclude by implication what the enactment clearly says unless the words of the proviso are such that that is its necessary effect.
(Vide also Corporation of The City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada) (1).
In Appeal No.
The Privy Council in Arunachalam Chettiar vs Commissioner of Income tax(1) held that this section was meant for a set off of profits arising under different heads and not where profits and losses had to be adjusted if they arose under the same head.
(2) of section 24 of the Indian Act: section 24 (2). . . . . . . . .
But then it was said that as the profits or gains of business in an Indian State were exempted from payment of tax in British India business in section 10 must mean business in British India.
Rhondda Urban Council vs Taff Vale Railway (1) and Harrison vs Ward (2).
260/ 58 a further question arose whether in the case of 259 that assessee the year ending June 30, 1949, was the previous year for the assessment year 1950 51 with the result that it should be assessed under the Indian Income tax Act of 1922.
The assesse made a profit in Travancore State and incurred a loss in the State of Cochin and sought to deduct this loss from the profit of Travancore State thus showing a net profit of Rs.
260 of 1958.
It carves out an exception to the main provision to which it has been enacted as a proviso and to no other ".
This was not allowed by the Income tax Officer and on appeal this order was confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
Thus the mere use of the words loss of profits or gains to be, set off against profits and gains would not be sufficient to restrict the scope of the proviso to the profits and losses arising under the head business in the two territories, i. e., British India and the Indian States.
Indian Act.
79,275 a loss of the assessee arising outside the Travancore State for purpose of the first proviso to section 32(1) of the Travancore Income tax Act ? "
The corresponding sections are as follows:
From 1922 to 1939 in order to be taxable income, profits and gains had to be received or had to accrue in British India.
Appeals dismissed.
Provided that where the loss sustained is a loss of profits or gains which would but for the loss have accrued or arisen within British India or in an Indian State and would under the provisions of clause (e) of sub section (2) of Section 18 (Section 14(2)(c) ), have been exempted from tax, such loss shall not be set off except against profits or gains accruing or arising within British India or in an Indian State and exempt from tax under the said provisions ".
In C. A. 260/58 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
The question for decision is as to how this proviso is to be construed.
This section was introduced in 1922 before which under the Indian Act of 1918 a loss under one head of income could not be set off against income under another head, the taxability of income arising from each head being separate.
263 there were six heads of income chargeable to income tax.
That would be straining the language of section 10 and would necessitate addition of words in section 10 which are not there in the section.
The Commissioner has come up in appeal pursuant to special leave against both these judgments.
We find it unnecessary to refer to them because we have indicated above what is the correct sphere of a proviso and what proviso (i) to section 24(1) means.
At the instance of the Commissioner of Income tax the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin: Is the aforesaid sum of Rs.
It was argued on behalf of the Revenue that this (1) , 37.
K.N. Rajagopala Sastri, R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for the appellant.
