We are, therefore, of the opinion that it would be just and fair that the issue whether defendant No.1 was a tenant in respect of the lands in question should be referred to the Mamlatdar for decision and after his decision is received by the Civil Court if the issue is held against defendant No.1, the Civil Court may consider passing of a decree in eviction but if on the other hand he is held to be tenant, the Civil Court may be required to dismiss the suit.
The first ground on which the High Court dismissed the suit is that the suit was barred by the principle of res judicata in view of the dismissal of the former suit
The jurisdiction is, therefore, vested in the Mamlatdar under section 7 of the Act and section 58(2) specifically bars the jurisdiction of all other courts to settle, decide or deal with any question which is by or under the Act required to be settled, decided or dealt with by the Mamlatdar.
In the previous suit the relief for possession was not claimed whereas in the second suit the relief was for restoration of possession.
In such a situation what procedure should the Civil Court follow ?
Sub section (2) of section 8 next provides that where any person as is referred to in section 4 (deemed tenant) has been evicted from the land on or after 1st July, 1962 such person shall be entitled to recover immediate possession of the land in the manner prescribed by or under the Act unless the landlord proves that the termination of tenancy was in the manner authorised by section 9.
That suit, however, came to be dismissed as the Trial Court came to the conclusion that the plaintiff was no more in possession of the property in respect of which he claimed to be a lessee.
He, therefore, sought possession of the demised property from the trespasser, defendant No.1.
Now take a case where the entire dispute falls within the exclusive jurisdiction of the special machinery under the Act and had the litigation commenced after the Fifth Amendment was brought into force it could not have been instituted in a Civil Court.
The first suit was dismissed on the technical ground that since the plaintiff was not in de facto possession no injunction could be granted and a suit for a mere declaration of status without seeking the consequential relief for possession could not lie.
Therefore, the subsequent suit was based on a distinct cause of action not found in the former suit and hence we do not think that the High Court was right in concluding that the suit was barred by Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
Section 7 posits that if any question arises whether any person is a tenant or should be deemed to be a tenant under the Act, the Mamlatdar shall after holding an enquiry decide such question.
No. 1 by defendant
In the subsequent suit the plaintiff contended that he had been forcibly dispossessed sometime in the second week of June, 1968 contrary to law even though his tenancy was subsisting and he had paid the first installment of rent for the year 1968.
There can, therefore, be no doubt that after the Fifth Amendment became effective in regard to land used primarily for growing coconut trees and garden produce, the jurisdiction of the civil court was ousted by virtue of section 58(2) of the Act.
It is against this order of the High Court that the present appeal by special leave is preferred.
It is only when the subject matter of any suit is directly and substantially in issue in the previous suit that the subsequent suit would be barred by res judicata if the competent court trying it had decided the issue regarding tenancy against the plaintiff.
Even in cases of threatened wrongful possession section 8A says that any tenant in possession of any land or dwelling house who apprehends that he may be dispossessed contrary to the provisions of this Act may apply in the prescribed manner to the Mamlatdar for an order safeguarding his right to possession.
Sub rule (1) of Rule 2, inter alia, provides that every suit shall include the whole of the claim which the plaintiff is entitled to make in respect of the cause of action.
Before we answer those questions we must decide on the impact of the Fifth Amendment on pending litigation.
That was a case arising under the provisions of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948.
With a view to preventing any such action on the part of the defendants he instituted the suit for an injunction to restrain them from so doing.
Since section 12 of the Rent Act was held to be prospective, the question which arose for consideration was whether its protection could be extended to tenants in pending litigation.
On these findings the High Court allowed the appeals and 1021 reversed the decree of the Trial Court with no order as to costs.
The High Court is, therefore, clearly wrong in its view that the relief claimed is neither relevant nor material.
His remedy would, therefore, to be entirely under the Act.
If the defendant who is sued as a trespasser raises a plea of tenancy, a question arises whether his plea of tenancy can be decided by the Civil Court as incidental to the grant of relief for possession or is the Civil Court precluded from deciding the same in view of section 7 read section 58(2) of the Act.
Therefore the second suit is to be deemed as barred by res judicata. .
One further situation which may arise under the provisions of the Act may be taken note of.
The lite is also the same.
Thus, said this Court the language of the sub section applies equally to suits pending when Part 11 comes into force and those to be filed subsequently.
(iii) Whether the tenancy of any deemed tenant is legally terminated and if no, whether the tenant evicted from the land held by him as such is entitled to restoration of possession?
Since the civil court had lost jurisdiction to decide the suit, the High Court dismissed it.
The plaintiff, therefore, contended that defendant No. 1 was a trespasser in the property and was liable to be evicted therefrom.
27/88 and 31/88 which came to be allowed on April 5, 1991.
If he relinquishes any claim to bring the suit within the jurisdiction of any court he will not be entitled to claim that relief in any subsequent suit.
We would like to make it clear that the hypothetical situations may or may not apply to the fact situation that may emanate of the pleadings in this case and it would be for the Trial Court to determine the course of action to be adopted in the light of the guidelines indicated hereinabove.
But in the case of a deemed tenant who has been evicted from the land on or after 1st July, 1962 since a remedy has been provided under 1032 the Act, the Jurisdiction of the Civil Courts stands wholly barred by virtue of Section 58 (2) of the Act.
Lastly it noticed that during the pendency of the suit the Goa, Daman & Diu Agricultural Tenancy Act, 1964 (hereinafter called 'the Act ') was amended by Act 17 of 1976 dated October 14,1976 known as the Fifth Amendment which was brought into effect from April 20, 1976 by which the definition of 'agriculture ' was changed and the expressions 'garden ' and 'garden produce ' were defined by the insertion of sub sections (7A).
This finding of the High Court is difficult to sustain.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the High Court was completely wrong in the view that it took based on the language of Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Civil Procedure Code.
No provision is 1027 made in the Act in that behalf.
It was only thereafter that the plaintiff filed the suit for restoration of his possession.
Against the said decree both the defendants preferred an appeal No.
