The other parts of the order of the learned Presidency Magistrate, as regards the disposal of Rs. 1,000 paid by the complainant to the appellant and the sum of Rs.
" It was urged that the offence arises only on receipt of any sum or any consideration as a condition of the relin quishment by a tenant of his tenancy and that in the present case there was no such relinquishment.
Exhibit D, which is the most material document, under which the appellant handed over vacant possession of the flat to the complainant, constitutes or evidences an assignment of the tenancy and not a relinquishment.
The defence of the appellant was that he was in search of a partner to carry on his business during his intended absence, who was also to act as caretaker of his flat anal that it was in this connection and with this object in view that he entered into negotiations with the complain ant.
Agent for respondent No. 1: P.A. Mehta.
Appeal from an Order of the High Court of Bombay (Bavdekar and Chainani JJ.) dated 20th February, 1950, in Criminal Appeal No.
29,500 to be paid to the appellant.
It is the landlord 's consent to the transfer of a lease by sub lease or otherwise on receipt of consideration that has been made an offence.
His wife, who was the second accused in the case, was charged with aiding and abetting her husband in the commission of the two offences.
As section 18 (1) of the Act was not applicable he convicted him under section 19(2) of the Act and sentenced him, in view of his old age and blindness, to one day 's simple imprisonment and a fine of Rs.
In fact, a surrender or relinquishment terminates the lessee 's rights and lets in the lessor.
2,000 for the furniture, and that the complainant agreed to pay these sums.
The words are "the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises".
55 situated on Marine Drive Road to Mr. Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia from this day onward
The section in question, it should be further noted, does not speak of relinquishment or giving up of possession,in general terms.
The sum of Rs.
He asked for a certificate under article 134(1)(c) of the Constitution but this was rejected on 10 4 1950.
