Rule In the case of any right in any land created by a landholder on or after the 1st day of July 1945 for a period exceeding one year and falling under the second proviso to section 20(1) of the said Act, the authority to decide whether the right should be terminated or allowed to continue shall be the Board of Revenue.
The long title and the preamble to the Abolition Act indicate, it is urged, that the object of the Act is to provide for the acquisition of the rights of landholders and that the policy of the Act is not to interfere with the rights of other persons in the estate.
The implications of the second proviso, learned counsel for the appellant points out, are two fold, namely, (a) that all rights created before the notified date but after July 1, 1945, for a period not exceeding one year would be valid and enforceable both by and against the Government by the operation of the body of sub section (1) itself and (b) that rights created before the notified date but after July 1, 1945, for a period exceeding one year would also be valid and enforceable by the Government against the person in whose favour such right had been created by reason of section 20(1).
In other words, the third proviso, according to learned counsel 559 for the appellant, merely enables the Government to exercise the right conferred on it by the second proviso and therefore, the Government, if it intends to avail itself of the right under the second proviso, must comply with the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
The appellant promptly filed writ petition No. 1 of 1956 praying for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the State of Andhra Pradesh to forbear from terminating his leasehold right in the slate quarries.
If the third proviso also applies to such leases, as the petitioners contend, then the lease can be terminated only if the Government is satisfied that it is in the public interest that it should be terminated and that further, in such cases, the lessee will also be entitled to compensation under section 20(2).
These three appeals are directed against the judgment and order pronounced by a Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on November 20, 1957, whereby three writ petitions, namely, No. 1 of 1956, No. 19 of 1957 and No.
Thereupon the Board of Revenue passed an order on December 27, 1955, declaring that the lease to the appellant had been granted subsequent to July 1, 1945, and that, as the lease was for a period exceeding one year, it was not enforceable against the Government, according to the second proviso to section 20 (1) of the Abolition Act.
