l Appeals Nos.
H N Sanyal Additional Solicitor General of India N D Karkhanis and R N Sachthey for the appellant.
October 23.
The judgment of the Court was delivered by KAPUR J.
These a peals pursuant to a certificate of the High Court of Bombay raise the question of interpretation of section 24B of the Income tax Act in an Income tax Reference.
The question referred was answered in the negative and against the Commissioner of Income tax who is the appellant in these appeals the respondents being the heirs and legal representatives of one Amarchand N Shroff deceased.
The appeals relate to the assessment years 1950 51 1951 52 1952 53 1953 54 and 1954 55.
Shortly stated the facts of the case are these Amarchand N Shroff Mangaldas and Hiralal were partners in a firm of solicitors.
Amarchand died on July 7 1949.
Thereafter the partnership was carried on by Mangaldas and Hiralal up to November 30 1949 and on December 1 1949 Ramesh son of Amarchand who had by then qualified as a solicitor joined the firm as the third partner.
After the death of Amarchand the arrangement between the various partners in regard to the realisations of the old outstandings was that in respect of the work done up to the death of Amarchand the realisations were to be divided amongst Amarchand Mangaldas and Hiralal in respect of the work between July 8 1949 and November 30 1919 the realisations were to be divided between Mangaldas and Hiralal and in respect of work done after December 1 1949 the realisations were to be divided amongst Mangaldas Hiralal and Ramesh.
The firm kept its accounts on cash basis.
The Income tax Officer sought to tax these realisations.
For the assessment years 1950 51 and 1951 52 he assessed the amounts in the hands of the heirs and legal representatives of Amarchand as a Hindu undivided family.
Against that order an appeal was taken to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and then to the Appellate Tribunal.
The two members of the Tribunal agreed in holding though for different reasons that the amounts were not the income of the Hindu undivided family but merely represented inheritance or realisations of the assets of Amarchand.
The matter was not pursued further by the Revenue but sometime later proceedings were started by the Income tax Officer under section 34 in respect of the same income in the hands of Amarchand N Shroff by his heirs and legal representatives.
The status of that entity was taken to be that of an individual and not Hindu undivided family.
The various amounts were assessed to income tax in the hands of the respondents under section 341 b read with section 24B of the Income tax Act.
The assessments so made were for the assessment years 1950 51 1951 52 1952 53 1953 54 and 1954 55 On appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner held that.
The Commissioner of Income tax took an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal and the Tribunal held that assessment could not be made on Amarchand and that section 24B had no application to the income received after the death of Amarchand and that it was capital receipt and not revenue receipt.
It held that apart from section 24E of the Income tax Act the amounts were not taxable and that the section had no application to the case.
In other words the respondents as heirs and legal representatives of the deceased Amarchand were liable to pay out of the estate of the deceased Amarchand on those amounts to the extent of the estate as the estate was liable for tax on the amounts received by the heirs and legal representatives just as the deceased Amarchand would have been had he not died.
The emphasis was on words in section 24B 1 or any tax which would have been payable by him under this Act if he had not died.
Section 24B is as follows  section 24B 11Tax of deceased person payable by represen tative 1 Where a person dies his executor administrator or other legal representative shall be liable to pay out of the estate of the deceased person to the extent to Which the estate 704 is capable of meeting the charge the tax assessed as payable by such person or any tax which would have been payable by him under this Act if he had not died.
The question before us is whether the income which was received subsequent to the previous year in which Amarchand died is liable to be assessed to income tax under section 24B as his income in the hands of his heirs and legal representatives.
In the present case the accounts were kept on cash basis.
It was held that this income was taxable.
See Ellis C Reid vs Commissioner of Income tax Bombay2.
It was held that no assessment could be made under section 234 of the Act after his death.
710 of the deceased Amarchand and are not liable to be taxed in the hands of the heirs and legal representatives who cannot be deemed to be assessees for the purpose of assessment in regard to those years.
In our view the High Court rightly answered the question in the negative and against the Commissioner of Income tax.
The appeals therefore fail and are dismissed with costs.
