The first group consisted of workmen who were drawing basic pay on January 1 1962 according to scales of pay provided by the ALL India Industrial Tribunal Bank Disputes Award 1953 popularly known as the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Tribunal Decision Bank Disputes.
The second group 900 consisted of workmen who on January 1 1962 were employed in banks which were not governed by the provisions of the Sastry award as modified and were not thus drawing basic pay on the footing of scales of pay provided by that award.
In the first case the Desai award provided that the workmen would be fitted in the new scales of pay from January 1 1962 on stage to stage adjustment basis ie workmen who were drawing basic pay at a particular stage in the time scale of the Sastry award as modified would draw basic pay at the same stage in the new scale applicable to them under the Desai award.
1 As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
5356 of the Desai award we may set out the two paragraphs in parallel columns for comparison Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision For workmen who enterd service of the bank before 31st January 1950 1.
1 Desai award For workmen who entered service of the bank before 1st January 1959 i The workman s basic pay as on January 1 1959 shall not be reduced in any case.
b To the basic pay into which he is fitted under cl.
a the annual increments in the new scale as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of service in the same cadre as on 31st January 1950 up to a limit of 12 years  service hereafter one increment for every four years of service up to another 8 years service and after that one increment for every five years of service.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
901 ii Subject to rule i the adjusted basic pay in the scale provided in the Sastry award as modified shall not exceed what point to point adjustment would give him or the maximum in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified.
bTo the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause a annual increment or increment in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
d After adjustments are made in accordance with clauses ab and c supra two further annual increments.
d of cl.
 The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present case was this.
ii of the Desai award the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1 1962.
ii and cl.
ii no further increments even under sub cl.
ii the adjusted basic pay is to be as on January 1 1962.
ii is subject to cl.
b read with sub cl.
iv and cl.
b read with sub cl.
i and ii.
d of cl.
d cannot be permitted in view of cl.
d of cl.
ii has to be worked out as on January 1 1959 the two increments provided by sub cl.
d of cl.
a b and c of el.
iv of the Desai award.
a b and c of el.
d must always be given.
b read with sub cl.
b and c of cl.
