P Ram Reddy and A V Rangam for the appellant.
The respondent purchased by a registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the name All India Trading Company.
Purushottam Raju was the sole proprietor of the business and had been assessed to sales tax in respect of his turnover for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50.
Ganapatia Pillai J who heard the petition dismissed it.
Rule 21 A reads as follows  When the ownership of the business of a dealer liable to pay the tax under the Act is entirely transferred any tax payable in respect of such business and remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer shall be recoverable from the transferor or the transferee as if they were the dealers liable to pay such tax provided that the recovery from the transferee of the arrears of taxes due prior to the date of the transfer shall be only to the extent of the value of the business he obtained by transfer.
The trans feree shall also be liable to pay tax under the Act on the sales of goods effected by him with effect from the date of such transfer and shall within thirty days of the transfer apply for registration or licence as the case may be unless he already holds a certificate of registration or licence as the case may be.
1 The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
2 In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may provide for c the assessment to tax under this Act of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed 664 The first question to be considered in this appeal is whether Rule 21 A is intra vires of the power of the State Government under sections 191 and 2 of the Act.
It imposes a liability to pay sales tax on every dealer for each year and the tax is to be calculated on his total turnover for that year.
By the amending Act of 1959 Act 1 of 1959 an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
But there is no such provision in the Act for the period with which we are concerned in the present case.
2  665 Whitney vs Commissioners of Inland Revenue that the liability to tax does not depend upon assessment.
It follows therefore that Rule 21 A is beyond the rule making power of the State Government either under section 191 or section 192c of the Act.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
In the present case the business which was transferred to the respondent was hence charged with the payment of sales tax and it was open to sales tax authorities to proceed against the assets of the business for realising the amount of sales tax due.
In our opinion there is no justification for this argument.
 This section was amended by section 8 of the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 which reads as follows 1 666 Substitution of new section for section 10 in Madras Act IX of 1939.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act  .
 In the present case the Act is not expressed to come into operation on any particular date but as it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8 1956 the Act came into operation on that date and not before.
It was however disputed by Mr Ganapathy Iyer on behalf of the respondent that there was any undertaking on the part of the respondent to discharge the liabilities in regard to arrears of sales tax.
