Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
The appeal filed therefrom by the third defendant was dismissed by the Subordinate Judge.
On March 14 1953 the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Act 1953 was passed amending the definition of thika tenant still further and introducing important changes in the Act of 1949.
Before the Subordinate Judge a point was taken that after the coming into force of the Act of 1949 the Rent Controller alone had jurisdiction in respect of ejectment suits as the defendant appellant was a thika tenant.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
On remand the Subordinate Judge Seventh Court Alipore rejected the plea of the landlord that the appellant Gaffur could not be regarded as a thika tenant inter alia on the ground that he had sold his interest by a registered sale deed dated April 12 1949 to one Subasini.
On a consideration of the provisions of the Act and the Ordinance the Subordinate Judge held that the appellant Gaffur was not liable to ejectment in the absence of any grounds therefor in the notice to quit in accordance with section 3 of the Act as he was a thika tenant within the meaning of the Act as it was finally amended.
On this occasion the main plank of the argument on behalf of the landlord was that with the omission of section 29 civil courts became unable to remit ejectment suits to the controller with the result that the Act as finally amended could not apply to pre Act suits and thika tenants could get no relief under the Act.
Section 3 Provided that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force no decree or order for the ejectment of a thika tenant shall be executed during the continuance in operation of the Ordinance.
5 of section 2 the definition of a thika tenant or violation of a condition consistent with the Act by a breach of which he was under the terms of a contract between himself and his landlord liable to be ejected iii refusal to agree to pay rent at such enhanced rate as might be determined under section 25 iv requirement 174 of the land by the landlord for his own occupation or for the purpose of building on the land or otherwise developing the land except during any period limited by a registered lease under which the tenant might be holding v failure on the part of the holding for his own residential manufacturing or business purpose for more than six consecutive months omitting the priviso and vi on the expiry of a registered lease in favour of the tenant.
S 4 provided It shall not be competent for a landlord to eject any thika tenant from his holding unless the landlord has given the thika tenant notice in the manner provided in section 106 of the  a in the case where he wishes to eject the thika tenant on any of the grounds specified in clauses i ii iii and iv of section 1 at least one month s notice in writing expiring with the end of a month of the tenancy and b in the case where he wishes to eject the thika tenant on the ground specified in clause iv of section 3 at least three months  notice in writing expiring with the end of a month of the tenancy.
It is however clear that the benefit of section 28 was available only if the decree or order for the recovery of possession had been made before the date of the commencement of the Act but 176 possession of such holding had not been recovered from him.
If the Court or Controller holds that the person is such a thika tenant.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
He was not right in his view that the grounds specified in section 3 could not be called in aid.
