Appeal No 1940 of 1967.
By insistence upon procedural wrangling in a com paratively simple suit pending in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad the parties have effectively prevented all progress in the suit during the last six years.
A building in the town of Ahmedabad used as a cinematograph theatre belonged originally to Messrs Popatlal Punjabhai.
By an agreement dated November 27 1954 between Raval and Faraqui on the one hand and Messrs Filmistan Distributors India Private Ltd hereinafter called Filmistan on the other hand right to exhibit cinematograph films was granted to the latter on certain terms and conditions.
By an order dated December 1 1960 the suit was disposed of as compromised.
It was inter alia agreed that Raval and Faraqui were bound and liable to allow Filmistan to exercise its exhibition rights in the theatre that Raval and Faraqui their servants and agents were not to have any right to exhibit any picture in contravention of the terms and conditions of the agreement dated November 27 1954 and that Raval and Faraqui shall execute and register an agreement in writing incorporating the said agreement with the variation as to rental.
in the theatre and that one Shabeer Hussain Khan Tejabwala had no right title or interest in the theatre that the defendants in the suit be ordered to hand over vacant and peaceful possession of the theatre and the defendants their servants and agents be restrained by an injunction from interfering directly or indirectly with its rights to obtain and remain in possession of the theatre or any part thereof and to exercise its right of exhibiting motion pictures and entertainment performances etc.
After issues were raised on June 20 1966 the plaint was amended and additional written statements were filed by the Defendants.
He also observed that the issues were not of law going to the root of the case and were on that account not capable of being decided without recording evidence.
A revision application against that order was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Gujarat.
It is not open to any Court of law to try an issue over again or reopen the same if an earlier decision operates as res judicata.
But the only thing that can be said is that so far as the agreement of November 27 1954 is con cerned it must be held in view of the consent decree of December 1 1960 that that document of November 27 1954 created a lease .
By section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure the High Court is invested with power to call for the record of any case decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereo if such subordinate court appears a to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law or b to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or c to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity and to make such order in the case as it thinks fit.
442 This Court observed in Major section section Khanna vs Brig.
A case may be said to be decided if the Court adjudicates for the purposes of the suit some right or obligation of the parties in controversy every order in the suit cannot be regarded as a case decided within the meaning of section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
