1025 26 of 1978.
These appeals by special leave involve the question of the legality of the demand for Property tax made by respondent 1 on the appellant Companies.
Respondent 1 is the Special Area Development Authority Korba District Bilaspur MP respondent 2 is its Chairman and respondent 3 is the State of Madhya Pradesh.
Respondent 1 the Special Area Development Authority for the Korba Special Area is constituted under section 65 of the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam 23 of 1973 referred to hereinafter as the Act of 1973 .
Chapter VIII of the Act consisting of sections 64 to 71 is entitled Special Areas.
Section 55 provides that for every Special Area there shall be a Special Area Development Authority consisting of a Chairman and such other members as the Government may determine from time to time.
Section 68 which prescribes the functions of the Development Authority lays down by clauses v and vi that the Development Authority shall make provision for the municipal services and municipal management of the Special Area.
Section 69 by clauses c and d confers upon the Development Authority powers for the purpose of municipal administration and for the purpose of taxation.
The Ordinance was replaced by the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Sanshodhan Adhiniyam 1976 6 of 1976.
They should better have not been so numbered alphabetically since the main clauses themselves are similarly numbered.
The corresponding provision in the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 is section 132 1a.
It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
In 1964 the Madhya Pradesh State Legislature had enacted the Madhya Pradesh Nagariya Sthawar Sampatti Kar Adhiniyam which was made applicable to the whole State including the urban areas.
By section 36 of the aforesaid Adhiniyam local authorities were prohibited from recovering the property tax from November 24 1970.
To compensate the municipal councils and the municipal corporations for the loss arising from the abolition of the octroi tax the Government decided to confer powers on these bodies for levying property tax.
For conferring powers to levy tax on the entry of goods in place of octroi tax the Madhya Pradesh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar Adhyadesh 1976 6 of 1976 was promulgated.
 Similar provisions were inserted in sections 135 and 136 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
11 The appellant Company disputed its liability to pay the aforesaid amounts on the grounds principally that no tax was leviable on its property since the Company was owned wholly by the Government of India and that respondent 1 was estopped from levying the property tax by reason of the agreement of 1976.
