On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal granted a lease of 96 bighas out of his 400 bighas to one D M Mathews.
Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the said boundary should be fixed solely with reference to the boundaries given in the lease of 1894 whereas learned counsel for the respondents contends that no plan has been annexed to the said lease and therefore the boundary could more satisfactorily and definitely be fixed with reference to the plans annexed to the subsequent lease deeds executed in favour of the successors in interest of the appellant and the respondents.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
As the plan is a part of the lease deed it is clear from the plan that the northern boundary of the leasehold of Samanta is the said line.
The appellant denied the said allegation and stated that the respondents all along knew and had been aware that the portion of coal land in question belonged to and was the property of the appellant.
He stated in his evidence that the appellant had encroached upon the South Kujamal Colliery in Seam Nos 10 11 and 12 and another special seam known as 4 feet seam and that in August 1941 be came to know about the encroachment for the first time when the Mines Department forwarded a plan of the joint workings of the two collieries of the parties.
He denied that he had any knowledge of the said two facts.
After noticing the words in the last column of the article the learned Judges proceeded to observe thus  The starting date of limitation in the case of conversion is the date when the person who has the right to possession first learns of the act of conversion.
 Adverting to the burden of proof the learned Judges observed There is nothing in the pleadings which would show precisely at what period tile plaintiff or the plaintiff s agent which is the same thing became aware of the sale and its wrongfulness that is to say became aware of the fact of conversion.
503 onus of proof may shift to the defendant.
 In Talyarkhan vs Gangadas 3 Rangnekar J formulated the legal position thus The onus is on the plaintiff to prove that he first learnt within three years of the suit that the property which he is seeking to recover was in the possession of the defendant.
504 took us through the correspondence that passed between the parties and the Mining Department in 1932.
In the written statement the defendants did not deny the fact that the coal still left in the encroached area was lost to the plaintiffs but only stated that it was purely a question of statutory obligation on the part of the plain.
The High Court accepted the finding.
Appeal dismissed.
