This is an appeal by special leave in an industrial matter.
The same day Sankaran protested against his suspension and requested that in any case the departmental inquiry should be expedited.
The main contention of the appellant is that it is entitled under r 18 a of the Standing Orders to dispense with the service of any employee after complying with its terms.
or more as daily wages otherwise than under rule 21 he shall be given 14 days notice or be paid 12 days wages.
As far back as 1952 the Labour Appellate Tribunal had occasion to consider this matter relating to discharge by notice or in lieu thereof by payment of wages for a certain period without assigning any reason see Buckingham and Carnatic Co Ltd Etg.
Further it held that where the termination of service is capricious arbitrary or unnecessarily harsh on the part of the employer judged by normal standards of a reasonable man that may be cogent evidence of victimisation or unfair labour practice.
and Assam Oil Company vs Its Workmen 2.
In any case even if the inquiry was not held by the appellant and action was taken under r 18 a it is now well settled in view of the decisions cited above that the employer could defend the action under r 18a by leading evidence before the tribunal to show that there was in fact misconduct and therefore the action taken under r 18a was bona fide and was not colourable exercise of the power under that rule.
In the circumstances if the tribunal did not accept the evidence of the two witnesses 828 who were produced it cannot be said to have gone wrong.
Learned counsel for the appellant however relies on the decision of this Court in Parshotam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India.
Stress was laid by the learned counsel on the observations at p 862 where it was observed as follows It is true that the misconduct negligence inefficiency or other disqualification may be the motive or inducing factor which influences the Government to take action under the terms of the contract of employment or the specific service rule nevertheless if a right exists under the contract or the rule to terminate the service the motive operating on the mind of the Government is as Chagla C J has said in Srinivas Ganesh vs Union of India 2 supra wholly irrelevant.
Further an employer cannot now press his right purely on contract and say that under the contract he has unfettered right to hire and fire his employees.
Appeal dismissed.
