This paragraph was considered by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in appeal from the Sastry award and certain modifications were made thereunder by paras 164 and 166 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision in appeal.
Paragraph 292 as modified by the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision came up for interpretation before this Court in State Bank of India vs Prakash Chand Mehra.
1 As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
901 ii Subject to rule i the adjusted basic pay in the scale provided in the Sastry award as modified shall not exceed what point to point adjustment would give him or the maximum in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified.
ivSubject to rules i to iii a workman s basic pay in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified shall be fixed in the following manner aA workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay of Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale as modified equal to or next above his basic pay as on 1st January 1959 in the scale then in force in the bank concerned hereinafter called the Bank s scale.
bTo the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause a annual increment or increment in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
 The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present case was this.
a b and c of cl.
We are of opinion that neither the stand taken by the bank nor the stand taken by the workmen is correct and that the relevant clauses in para.
We see no force in this submission.
ii the adjusted basic pay is to be as on January 1 1962.
Further cl.
iv which provides for actual calculations starts with the words subject to rules i to iii and therefore the actual calculations made under cl.
a b and c of cl.
i and cl.
a of cl.
i and the basic pay to be fixed on January 1 1959 has to be fixed by reading sub cls.
a of cl.
d cannot be permitted in view of cl.
But as we have held that in cl.
iv will take effect and give two annual increments for 1960 and 1961 which are beyond the date which we have accepted as the right date for purposes of cl.
ii has to be worked out as on January 1 1959 the two increments provided by sub cl.
a b and c of el.
iv of the Desai award.
ii works.
a b and c of el.
This interpretation is in accord with what was decided by this Court in Prakash Chand Mehra s case1 and that decision in our opinion would govern the interpretation of para.
His basic pay as on January 11959 was Rs 106.
His place of posting was Phagwara in area ITT.
Point to point adjustment as on January 1 1959 would give him Rs 106 in the Sastry award scale as modified.
This is equal to his actual salary as on January 1 1959.
His salary as on January 1 1959 was Rs 100 and his place of posting was Nakodar in area IV of the 1 906 Sastry award.
a of cl.
b and c of cl.
a of cl.
d which will bring his salary to Rs 112 as on January 1 1962.
CA 1008 allowed.
