Appellant No 2 was appointed Managing Director of the Company from December 5 1961 and his appointment and remuneration were approved by the Central Government on July 30 1962.
We were however not impressed by this argument.
We would however like to refer to and deal with one aspect of the argument bearing on the question of mala fides.
To say that the opinion to be formed must be as to the necessity of making an investigation would be making a clear departure from the language in which section 237b is couched.
Then he has set out the circumstances upon which his contention is based.
The enquiry may reveal thatthe renovation or other similar kind of malfeasance.
The investigation according to Mr Setalvad.
was the outcome of this memorandum and that by ordering it the Board has in effect enabled the ex Directors who continue to be shareholders to circumvent the provisions of sections 235 and 236 of the .
To sum up then our conclusions may be stated thus The discretion conferred on the Central Government by section 237b to order an investigation and delegated by it to the Company Law Board is administrative that it could be validly exercised by the Chairman of the Board by an order made in pursuance of a rule enacted by the Central Government under section 6421 read with section 10E5 that the exercise of the power does not violate any fundamental right of the company that the opinion to be formed under section 237b is subjective and that if the grounds are disclosed by the Board the Court can examine them for considering whether they are relevant.
These are two very different things.
The words in the opinion of the Central Government indicate that the opinion must be formed by the Central Government and it is of course implicit that the opinion must be an honest opinion.
Under sections 10E1 and 6371a the Central Government has power to constitute a Company Law Board and to delegate its functions to the Board.
On August 25 1959 and September 23 1960 appellant No 2 obtained two licences for the manufacture of 2500 and 1900 tonnes of barium chemicals per year in the name of Transworld Traders of which lie was the proprietor.
