Appeal No 787 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 5 1961 of the Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree No 1012 of 1955.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
to the benefit of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended finally by an Act of 1953.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
No claim was made for rents or taxes although it was alleged that the same were in arrears.
The suit was contested only by the third defendant who filed a written statement in September 1948 contending that the suit was bad for non joinder of parties.
Fifth Additional 172 Court Alipore on November 23 1949.
The Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 was passed on October 21 1952 introducing various changes in the Act and substituting a new definition of a thika tenant.
Section 29 ran as follows The provisions of this Act shall apply to all suits and proceedings including proceedings  in execution for ejectment of a thika tenant which are pending at the date of commencement of this Act and if any such suit or proceeding relates to any matter in respect of which the Controller is competent after the date of such commendment to pass orders under this Act such suit or proceeding shall be transferred to the Controller who shall on suit transfer deal with it in accordance with the provisions of this Act as if this Act had been in operation on the date of institution of the suit or proceeding Provided that in applying the provisions of the Act to any suit or proceeding instituted for the ejectment of a thika tenant so transferred the provisions regarding notice in section 4 of this Act shall not apply.
If the Court or Controller holds that the person is such a thika tenant.
If the matter was in appeal the appellate court had to exercise jurisdiction under this sub section determine whether the tenant was a thika tenant and send the matter to the controller if it was found that the tenant was entitled to the benefit of the Act .
Sub section 2 of section 1 provided that the Act was to come into force immediately on the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 ceasing to operate provided that the provisions of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended by this Act were subject to the provisions of section 9 to apply and be deemed to have always applied to all suits appeals and proceedings a before any court or b before the Controller or c before a person deciding an appeal under section 27 of the said Act on the date of the commencement of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 ie 21st October 1952.
No reference is made in this subsection to the date when the suit was instituted.
Only suits which were pending on 21st October 1952 were to be decided in terms of the Act as finally amended.
According to Craies on Statute Law Sixth Edition at p 391 If it is a necessary implication from the language employed that the legislature intended a particular section to have a retrospective operation the courts will give it such an operation.
According to Halsbury s Laws of England third edition Vol 36 page 413 article 627 Unless it is clearly and unambiguously intended to do so a statute should not be construed so as to interfere with or prejudice established private rights under contracts or the title to property or so as to deprive a man of his property without his having an opportunity of being heard.
The provisions of the Act of 1949 as finally amended by the Act of 1953 have to be examined to show how far they disturb the rights of landlord to recover possession of the property from a person who would be a thika tenant on 28th February 1949.
Before the Act had come into force the landlord could not possibly know that his suit would be liable to be defeated unless he applied to the controller because there was no such authority functioning then.
182 We cannot speculate as to why the legislature thought fit to omit sections 28 and 29 from the Act of 1949.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
There being no provision for transfer of the proceedings of the suit to the controller the court had to apply the Act as it found applicable to the facts of the case.
He was not right in his view that the grounds specified in section 3 could not be called in aid.
