In view of article 229 of the Constitution.
These orders were duly notified in the Orissa Gazette.
Those officers acted in accordance with the orders of the government.
As mentioned earlier member sales tax tribunal was an ex cadre post.
Hence in the case of Shri PC Dey it must be assumed that his services were placed by the High Court at the disposal of the government for being posted as member sales tax tribunal.
the High Court must also have the power to fill up the post of the Registrar as that is also Included in the cadre.
In Ranga Mahammad s case2 the point that arose for decision was as to who was the authority to transfer a district judge.
the State government or the High Court.
1  2  161 namely whether the power to transfer District Judges is included in the control  exercisable by the High Court over District Courts under article 235 or in the power of appointment of persons to be and the posting and promotion of district judges  which is to be exercised by the Governor under article 233 albeit in consultation with the High Court.
Some are good stations and some are not so good.
The other is that a case is only an authority for what it actually decides.
Such a mode of reasoning assumes that the law is necessarily a logical code whereas every lawyer must acknowledge that the law is not always logical at all.
 It is not a profitable task to extract a sentence here and there from a judgment and to build upon it.
Just as the executive cannot know the requirements of a particular court the High Court also cannot know the requirements of any post in the secretariat.
In other words the period during which a judicial officer should serve in an executive post must be settled by agreement between the High Court and the government.
Except for very good reasons we think the High Court should always be 164 willing to spare for an agreed period the services of any of the officers under its control for filling up such executive posts as may require the services of judicial officers.
