Appeals under article 132 1 of the Constitution from the judgment and order dated 28th August 1951 of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta Harries CJ Chakravarthi Das Banerjee and SR Das Gupta JJ in Civil Revision Cases Nos 942 and 1113 of 1951.
The facts of the case and the argument of Counsel appear fully in the judgment.
Jitendra Nath Ghose R P Bagchi with him for the respondent in Case No 297.
V Rajaram Iyer Advocate General of Hyderabad R Ganapathy Iyer with him for the State of Hyderabad.
AR Sornanatha Iyer Advocate General of Mysore K Ramaseshayya Choudhry with him for the State of Mysore.
NC Chatterjee section K Kapur with him for the respond ent in Case No 298 1952.
The Act is intituled An Act to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences  and the preamble declares that it is expedient to provide for the speedier trial of cer tain offences .
Harries CJ who delivered the leading judgment which Das and Banerjee JJ.
 Before considering whether section 51 infringes to any and what extent the constitutional prohibition under article 14 it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
In other words the purpose of section 5 1 is to define the jurisdiction of a special court appointed under the Act and not the scope of the power conferred on the State Gov ernment to refer cases to such court.
2  293 offences as there can of course be no trial of offences in the abstract and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature for a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
The first part of the article which appears to have been adopted from the Irish Constitution is a declaration of equality of the civil rights of all persons within the territories of India and thus enshrines what American Judges regard as the basic principle of republi canism cf.
The second part which is a corollary of the first and is based on the last clause of the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Ameri can Constitution enjoins that equal protection shall be secured to all such persons in the enjoyment of their rights and liberties without discrimination or favouritism or as an American Judge put it it is a 1 17 Am.
That is so yet to carry that presumption to the extent of always holding that there must be some undisclosed intention or reason for subjecting certain individuals to a hostile and discriminatory legislation is to make the pro tection clause of article 14 in the words of an American decision a mere rope of sand in no manner restraining State action.
It is against this decision that these two appeals have been taken to this court by the State of West Bengal.
His first line of argument is that quite apart from the question of classification there has been no infringement of article 14 of the Constitution in the present case.
It is not stated that it is only when speedier trial is necessary that the discretion should be exercised.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
In the opinion of the learned Chief Justice if the State Govern ment had directed certain offences or classes of offences committed within the 1  332 territory of West Bengal to be tried by the Special Court the law or order could not have been impeached as discrimi natory.
That the Act has prescribed a procedure of trial which is materially different from that laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot be disputed.
The far reaching effect of the elimination of the committal proceedings cannot possibly be ignored merely by stating that the warrant procedure under the Code in a way also involves a committal by the trial Magistrate namely to himself for the warrant procedure minimises the chances of the prosecution being thrown out at the preliminary stage.
 In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
The short question that arises for consideration in these cases is whether the whole or any portion of the West Bengal Special Courts Act X of 1950 is invalid as being opposed to equality before the law and the equal protection of the laws guaran teed under article 14 of the Constitution of India.
Of course there may be certain offences whose trial requires priority over the rest and quick progress owing to their frequent occurrence grave danger to public peace or tranquillity and any other special features that may be prevalent at a particular time in a specified area.
Co vs Illinois Prof Weaver says at page 404 of his compendious book on Constitutional Law under the heading of  DISCRIMINATION IN THE ADMiNiSTRATION OF THE LAWS  Discrimination may exist in the administration of the laws and it is the purpose of the equal protection clause to secure all the inhabitants of the state from intentional and arbitrary discrimination arising in their improper or preju diced execution as well as by the express terms of the law itself.
 Bose J We are concerned here with article 14 of the Constitution and in particular with the words equality before the law and equal protection of the law.
