They are Titaghur Paper Mill No 3 situated at Chaudwar and the JK Paper Mills at Rayagada.
 On the basis of this finding of fact the Tribunal held that if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which in its opinion would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case then a revision was really necessary.
not think that such a consideration should be taken.
into account.
He has stated that the Alumihium Factory at Hirakud carries on its work with the help of highly automatic machines and is  supplied electricity by the Government at subsidised rates.
The idea of fixing such wage in the light of cost of living at a particular juncture of time and of neutralising the rising prices of essential commodities by linking up scales of minimum wages with the cost of living index cannot therefore be said to be alien to the concept of a minimum wage.
It may be noticed that by the very nature of employment being casual it can be presumed that a casual worker is on a lower footing and cannot expect the same wagesas a permanent employee.
Learned counsel appearing for the Company drew our attention to the fact that the revised wages are payable with effect from 13th December 1962 and by this time a period of 5 to 6 years has elapsed so that the Company will have to pay arrears of wages for this long period.
This argument fails because it appears to us that the demand as put forward before the Tribunal for bonus equivalent to six months  wages was in fact never made by the workmen on the basis that the surplus calculated under the Full Bench Formula would justify bonus being granted at that rate.
refer it.
At that time the year 1962 63 was still running and the accounts for that year could not possibly have been closed and made available.
The award had to cover the year 1963 64 also and at least for that year the accounts could not possibly have been completed as that year was still running when the award was given by the Tribunal on the 11 th January 1964.
The claim in this respect also fails.
The rest of the Award of the Tribunal is upheld.
