Petition under article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of fundamental rights.
M C Setalvad P Ramachandra Rao Advocate General Andhra Pradesh A Raghubir and A V Rangam for respondent No 1.
Sardar Ali Khan P N Duda and J B Dadachanji for res pondent No 46.
P A Choudhury K Rajendra Chaudhuri and C section Sreenivasa Rao for the interveners.
The petitioners are persons employed in the ministerial services of the Andhra Pradesh Government.
All of them were working in various offices located in the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad.
On January 19 1969 leaders of all political parties in the Legislature of the Andhra Pradesh State appeared to have met and reached the decision that to Implement what are called Telengana Safeguards  the following measures should be taken  All non domicile persons who have been appointed either directly by promotion or by transfer to posts reserved under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Rules 1959 for domiciles of Telengana region will be immediately relieved from service.
The posts so rendered vacant will be filled by qualified candidates possessing domicile qualifications and in cases where such candidates are not available the posts shall be left unfilled till qualified domicile candidates become available Action on the above lines will be taken immediately.
All non domicile employees so relieved shall be provided employment in the Andhra region without break in service and by creating supernumerary posts if necessary.
 117 The Government of Andhra Pradesh then passed an order GOMs 36 GA SR Dept on January 21 1969 relieving before February 28 1969 all non domicile persons appointed on or after November 1 1956 to certain categories of posts reserved for domiciles of Telengana under the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Requirement as to Residence Rules 1959.
Names of such incumbents were to be shown in a proforma and they were to be employed in the Andhra region without break in service by creating supernumerary posts if necessary.
Section 3 of the Act gave the power to make Rules in respect of certain classes of employment in certain areas.
For this reason section 3 of the Act is challenged as ultra vires the Constitution.
The first clause emphasises that ware shall be in India equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters of employment or appointment to any office under the late.
For the original words of the clause under any State specified in the First schedule or any local or other authority within its territory any requirement as to residence within that State  the present words from under the Government  to Union territory  have been substituted.
any requirement as to residence within the State or Union territory prior to employment or appointment to an office in that State or Union territory.
Firstly whether Parliament  while prescribing the requirement may prescribe the requirement of residence in a particular part of the State and secondly whether Par liament can delegate this function by making a declaration and leaving the details to be filled in by the rule making power of the Central or State Governments.
It has already made a declaration that no person shall be disqualified for any office in the territory of India because of his residence in any particular part of India.
He contends that the power is given to Parliament to make any law and therefore Parliament is supreme and can make any law on the subject as the article says.
He very ingeniously shifts the emphasis to the words any requirement  and contends that the requirement may be also as to residence in the State or any particular part of state.
