Appeal No 949 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 11 1964 of the Madras High Court in Tax Case No 181 of 1962.
There were two partners of the firm Mohanlal Sagmal and Seshmal Sobhachand and Ramniklal and Lakshmichand minors were admitted to the benefits of the partnership each with 732 share in the profits.
The appellants had for a long time business relations with a firm styled Bhojaji Sobhachand carrying on business at Bombay as importers of yam and also as agents and adathias.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect of their business transactions.
The Income tax Officer disallowed their claim holding that  these transactions were mere accommodations which can have no bearing to the regular business carried on by the assessee.
The question referred was therefore answered in the affirmative and against the appellants.
A bad and doubtful debt in respect of a business other than banking or money lending is allowable even if it is not in respect of loan  but a debt due in the course of the business of a money lending is not allowable unless it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of his business.
 The two branches of the question as reframed then are 1 Whether the debt or any part thereof is in respect of loans made 419 in the ordinary course of money lending business of the appellants and 2 whether the debt or any part thereof is in respect of the other business of the appellants.
The Tribunal s order is very brief  it gives no reasons in support of the conclusions.
In appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the Income tax Officer.
The tribunal has accordingly submitted a further statement.
It is also true that the tribunal after catalogueing the arguments advanced at the bar has come to certain abrupt conclusions but all the tame it cannot be denied that the findings reached by the tribunal are findings of fact and those findings are supported by the evidence on record.
