On April 9 1959 the Central Government directed removal from service of Capt section K Rao under r 14 of the Army Rules 1954.
An inquiry into the matter was made by Court of Inquiry.
If this rule was intra vires the  Rao has no case.
without the officer being tried by a court martial.
450 Before removal he must under the rule be asked to submit his explanation and defence.
If the explanation is found to be unsatisfactory the Central Government has been given the power to dismiss or remove the officer.
Sub section 2a provides  Without prejudice to the generality of the power conferred by sub section 1 the rules made thereunder may provide for a the removal retirement release or discharge from the service of persons subject to this Act Sections 18  19 which appear in Ch.
IV of the dealing with Conditions of Service provide as follows  S18 Every person subject to this Act shall hold office during the pleasure of the President.
 section 19 Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder the Central Government may dismiss or remove from the service any person subject to this Act.
 Offenses under the have been dealt with in sections 34 to 70 in Ch.
VI of which section 45 is as follows  section 45 Any officer junior commissioned officer or warrant officer who behaves in a manner unbecoming his position and the character expected of him shall on conviction by court martial if he is an officer be liable to be cashiered or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned and if he is a junior commissioned officer or a warrant officer be liable to be dismissed or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned It was argued by counsel for the respondent Rao that the contained specific provisions for punishment for unbecoming conduct viz section 45.
To give power to the Central Government to remove an officer without being tried and convicted by court martial was in derogation of section 45 of the .
Section 191 2 a specifically gives.
It follows that there may be a valid rule where under subject to the other provisions of the Act the Central Government may remove a person from the service.
Rule 14 is such a rule  it is therefore not ultra vires.
It was argued that the words subject to the provisions of this Act occurring in section 19 makes section 19 subject to section 45 and the Central Government has thus no power to remove a person from the service in derogation of the provisions of section 45.
But the power under section 19 is an independent power.
For removal from service under section 19 of the read with r 14 of the Army Rules 1954 a court martial is not necessary.
