1 To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
It shall apply in the first instance.
They read Commercial establishment means any premises wherein any trade business or profession or any work in connection with or incidental or ancillary thereto is carried on and includes a society registered under the  and charitable or other trust whether registered or not which carries on any business trade or profession or work in connection with or incidental or ancillary thereto  journalistic and printing establishments quarries and mines not governed by the  educational or other Institutions run for private gain and premises in which business of banking insurance stocks and shares brokerage or produce exchange is carried on but does not include a shop or a factory registered under the  or theaters cinemas restaurants eating houses residential hotels clubs or other places of public amusement or entertainment.
 Establishment means a shop a commercial establishment residential hotel restaurant eating house theatre or other places of public amusement or entertainment to which this Act applies and includes such other establishment as Government may by notification in the Official Gazette 35 3 declare to be an establishment for the purposes of the Act.
There is no doubt that the registered office of the Federation is premises.
Mr Pai learned Counsel for the Federation has firstly raised a preliminary objection that before the High Court at no stage it was urged on behalf of the Appellants that the activity of the Federation carried on in the premises was a business or trade.
It is pointed out that it was wrongly assumed in Mittal s case supra that the Federation was systematically assisting not only its members but also other business men and industrialists even if they were not its members.
Alternatively it was contended that the case fell within part b of the definition of commercial establishment inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business generally.
We therefore overrule the preliminary objection.
