The High Court acquitted accused Jabamani Nadar alias Kanyakumari Comrade alias Ramu and accepted the reference in respect of the present accused.
He further saw his two brothers Gnanasakaran PW 1 and Thiru gnanasambandam PW 3 along with Ramasamy PW 2 chasing them.
PM I woke up on hearing a noise to the effect younger brother Karunakaran is running after stabbing me with knife catch him .
It was also observed that the High Court can place no reliance on the testimony of PW 4 in so far as he implicated the second accused and Tharnizharasan in the case of murder of Viswanatham.
The High Court further observed Poor PW 4 was compelled to speak to a version which ought to accord and harmonise with the version given out by  PWs 1 2 and 3.
The High Court has taken note of the fact that there has been a history of a bitter feud spanning over nearly a decade between the first accused and his father on the one hand and the deceased Viswanatham t on the other.
This is therefore a case where conviction of the accused depends .
The very fact that this eye witness could be persuaded to substitute PWs 1 2 and 3 for his deceased brother as chasing the assailants degrades him from the status of an absolutely reliable witness.
This witness may not have a qualm of conscience in implicating the accused for the 711 mere asking by someone if not by the inimical police officer PW 23 against whom criminal cases were pending at the instance of the accused s father.
It failed to notice certain broad facts which should definitely weigh with the court while appreciating ocular testimony.
This may not in a given case be considered as a very serious infirmity since the witness may not have seen the other.
assailants when he came running to the place of occurrence.
But the fact that the witness has stated in the first information report that the deceased was only mentioning the name of accused Karunakaran as his assailant this earlier version appears to be contradicted by the medical evidence.
Besides he has deliberately changed his own stand in court when he deposed that he saw two other persons running ahead of Karunakaran being chased by his two brothers and Ramaswamy.
Another very serious departure from his earlier version is that while PW 4 had stated in the first information report that my elder brother meaning the deceased was chasing him from behind in court he has completely given a go by to this statement and stated that Karunakaran was being chased by PWs 1 2 and 3.
If his statement in court that he saw PWs 1 2 and 3 chasing Karunakaran while running away after the assault is true it is difficult to appreciate that he would not mention about this fact in the first information report.
He admitted in the course of cross examination that the Sub Inspector asked him whether he had any witnesses and that he did not tell about them due to excitement.
On the other hand we find that there is a mention about a pool of blood only where the dead body was found at No 1 in the site plan.
We further find from the evidence of PW 4 in cross examination that when he went near his deceased elder brother about hundred persons were there and none of them asked him as to how it had happened.
It is also conceivable that those persons who arrived at the place of occurrence a little earlier than PW 4 did not see the assailants who might have already escaped.
It also stands to reason that those persons who gathered would not ask PW 4 who arrived at the place a little later for information with regard to the assailants.
When the accused is 712 going to lose his life in such a serious charge it is only necessary that the court should be circumspect and closely scrutinise the evidence to come to an unhesitating conclusion that he is absolutely reliable.
We are unable to say that the High Court in this case has made a correct approach in assessing the quality of the testimony of this solitary eye witness.
The High Court is not even right that PW 4 stands wholly corroborated by the contents of the FIR.
For the reasons given above we are unable to place such reliance as is requisite on the testimony of this uncorroborated solitary witness for convicting the accused facing a murder charge.
SR Appeal allowed.
