Civil Appeal No 1231 of 1968.
B D Bal with A G Ratnaparkhi for the appellant.
The deity of his worship was Shri Vithal Rukhamai.
He also acquired certain properties and the said temple with the properties constituted Shri Vithal Rukhamai Sansthan of Amalner.
After the passing of the Bombay Public Trusts Act 1950 No 29 of 1950 briefly the Act an application under section 18 of that Act was filed by three persons Bhaskarrao Chimanrao Deshmukh Ramrao Sahebrao Deshmukh and Ramkrishna Tryambak Deshpande as constituted attorneys of Vasudeobuwa who was described in the application as the owner of the property.
His only contention is that it is a private religious endowment and not a public one.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
The next document in sequence is a Varaspatra of February 28 1869 exhibit 35 executed by Guru Govind Balkrishna buwa in favour of Prahladbuwa.
It is further pointed out that while nominating Prahlad as Adhikari Balkrishnabuwa stated in the said document as follows You are entitled to the ownership of all the incomes that will come before the Deity Shri Samarth and during the Swari procession as well as the income of Inam Najrana and the income of movable and immovable property.
That ownership is of your own.
Your Bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
Although it is stated in the document that Balkrishnabuwa was carrying on the Malaki he at the same time states with regard to the Sansthan thus  the same was entrusted to me by Shri Guru Maharaj  x x x x x I therefore thought that I should entrust the work of the Sansthan to you and have appointed you to the said Sansthan.
Again in the gift deed exhibit 39 the donee is described as Shri Rukhmini Pandurang Sansthan Sansthan Amalner Sakharam Maharaj at present Vasudev Buwa Guru Bal 525 krishna Maharaj.
It is clear that the beneficiaries of the deeds are the deity and the Sansthan and the gifts were made with the object of maintenance of the worship of the deity for the benefit of the Hindu public as a whole.
Examples do occur where the founder may grant property to his spiritual preceptor and his disciples in succession with a view to maintain one particular spiritual family and for perpetuation of certain rights and ceremonies which are deemed to be conducive to the spiritual welfare of the founder and his family.
We cannot agree that the High Court was not right in giving due importance to the admission of the constituted attorney Ramkrishna Deshpande that they cannot prevent people from going to the temple as the temple is meant for the Darshan by the public.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
The Bhajans at Pandharpur performed by Maharaj are attended by the public.
