Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 14 6 1967 of the Mysore High Court in Writ Petition No 44065.
 1 from which learned Counsel thought the following observations could perhaps be cited on behalf of the petitioner respondent at p 202 it was argued by Mr Ashoke Sen that in regard to both these matters the respond ents have a right of representation and the final gradation list should have been pub lished after giving them further oppor tunity to make a representation.
We think that any claim to have a say against the final fist prepared on an analogy with the second opportunity which is afforded to a person to be punished after arriving at a decision on the facts of a departmental trial and proposal to inflict a particular punishment upon him is quite inap propriate.
All that is done is that certain principles are applied in the preparation of the list.
When a provisional seniority fist is prepared there is a possibility of some mistakes occurring about the facts of a case or in the application of those rules.
If he was to have that opportunity the list would not really be final but only provisional or preliminary.
A right to representation was recognised as existing at time when the list was still to be considered as not finalised presumably because some mistakes had crept in due to want of heating on two points.
GR Prabhavalkar  Ors.
1 where it was held by this Court at p 2106 1 AIR 1973 Sc 2102 at 2106.
The Central Government under Sec 115 of the Act has to determine the princi ples governing equation of posts and prepare a common gradation list by integration of services.
The Central Government is bound to ensure a fair and equitable treatment to officers in the matter of integration of services and preparation of gradation lists.
It has also to give a full and fair opportuni ty to the parties affected to make their representations and the Central Government has also to give a proper consideration to those representations.
It was also held there at p 2106 It is no doubt true that the Central Government must have due regard to the princi ples enunciated by it in consultation with the States for the purpose of equation Of posts.
