M C Setalvad Attorney General of India C K Daphtary Solicitor General of India B Sen and R H Dhebar with them for the respondent No 1 890 1955 October 14.
The said Govindji Deoji Halai hereinafter referred to as the assessee is the sole proprietor of a business carried on under the name and style of Indestro Sales and Service Co at No 50 52 Lohar Chawl Street in the City of Bombay.
The sale proclamation was issued on the 15th January 1955.
The assessee was actually arrested on the 1st July 1955.
A rule was issued by the High Court but eventually on the 24th August 1955 the High Court Chagla CJ and Desai J discharged the rule.
a Section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act which is impugned before us runs as follows 46.
All that the sub section directs the Collector to do is to proceed to recover the certified amount as if it were an arrear of land revenue that is to say he is to adopt the procedure prescribed by the appropriate law of his State for the recovery of land revenue and that in thus proceeding he is under the proviso to have all the powers a Civil Court has under the Code.
114 900 of public demand prevailing in that State Here the defaulters are classified on a territorial or geographical basis and this basis of classification has precisely the same correlation to the object of the Indian Income tax Act as it has to the object of the different Public Demands Recovery Acts.
People of each State are familiar with and used to the coercive processes which each State finds it necessary to impose on its own people for the recovery of public demand and there can be no hardship and consequently no objection to their being put to the same processes for the recovery of the public demand of the Union.
The Indian Income tax Act classifies people into various groups for the purpose of imposing the tax and taxes them differently eg insurance companies which are taxed differently from an ordinary business concern and in some cases exempts them altogether eg agriculturists and persons with income below a certain level.
The two together make up the full measure of the 901 burden and if it is permissible to vary the burden at one end it must be equally valid to vary it at the other for the same or similar reasons.
It is said that the income tax demand being a Union demand there should be uniformity in the punishment to be meted out to defaulters and it can be done easily by suitably amending section 462 so as to provide for the detention of all defaulters for the same period in all cases in all States.
For the purposes of this case it will suffice to say that the discrimination complained of is not unconstitutional for the simple reason that the impugned law is based on a territorial classification having a reasonable nexus or correlation between that basis of classification and the object sought to be achieved by the Act.
Adoption of an existing machinery devised for a particular purpose cannot if there be no vice of unconstitutionality in the machinery render it unconstitutional if it is made to subserve a purpose closely akin or similar to the purpose for which it bad been devised.
A cursory perusal of the two sections will show at once that the procedure prescribed by section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of arrears of land revenue was harsher and more drastic than the procedure laid down in section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code 1879 in that a defaulter residing in the City of Bombay could be kept in detention for a day for every rupee of the arrears which might considerably exceed the maximum period of six months which is the period 904 limited by the Code of Civil Procedure for the detention of a judgment debtor in civil jail.
In the view we have taken it is not necessary to express any opinion whether the discrimination brought about by the two sections was supportable on the ground of a reasonable classification based on territorial considerations so as not to offend the constitutional inhibition.
Assuming then but not deciding that section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 became inconsistent with the fundamental right guaranteed by article 14 and therefore became void to the extent of such inconsistency it was not as recently explained by this Court in Bhikaji Narayan Dhakras vs The State of Madhya Pradesh Nagpur and Another1 obliterated from the statute book for all times or for all purposes or for all people.
It is true that the warrant of attachment of the property was issued on the 24th March 1954 but the sale proclamation was issued and the sale was actually held after the date of amendment.
We may mention that our attention was drawn to the decision of the Madras High Court in Erimmal Ebrahim Hajee vs The Collector of Malabar1 but learned counsel could not rely upon it as an authority as it was itself under appeal before this Court.
In Assam there can be no imprisonment at all.
The periods of detention vary between Bengal UP and the Punjab.
