V N Ganpule and Mrs V D Khanna for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD CJ.
Defendants 2 to 5 admitted the plaintiff s claim the suit having H been contested by defendant 1 Gurupad only.
That in short is the case of defendant 1.
Upon that finding the plaintiff.
LR351.
Explanation 2.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
The proviso to section 6 contains the formula for fixing the share of the claimant while Explanation 1 contains a formula for deducing the share of the deceased.
The son daughter and a widow are mentioned as heirs in class I of the Schedule and therefore by reason of the provisions of section 8a read with the 1st clause of section 9 they take simultaneously and to the exclusion of other heirs.
As between them the two sons the three daughters and the widow will take equally each having one share in the deceased s property under section 10 read with Rules 1 and 2 of that section.
One must therefore imagine a state of affairs in which a little prior to Khandappa s death a partition of the coparcenary property was effected between him and other members of the coparcenary.
see Mulla s Hindu Law Fourteenth Edition page 403 para 315.
The question is which of these two views is to be preferred.
In our case it is not necessary for the purposes of working out the fiction to assume and supply a missing link which is really what was meant by Lord Asquith in his famous passage in East End Dwellings Co Ltd vs Finsbury Borough Council1 He said if you are bidden to treat an imaginary state of affairs as real you must also imagine as real the consequences and 1 1959 Stipp.
In other words the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
To make the assumption at the initial stage for the limited purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased and then to ignore it for calculating the quantum of the share of the heirs is truly to permit one s imagination to boggle.
The allotment of this share is not a processual step devised merely for the purpose of working out some other conclusion.
Section 3 of the Hindu Women s Rights to Property Act.
By restricting the operation of the fiction created by Explanation I in the manner suggested by the appellant we shall be taking a retrograde step putting back as it were the clock of social reform which has enabled the Hindu Woman to acquire an equal status with males in matters of property.
Even assuming that two interpretations of Explanation I are reasonably possible we must prefer that interpretation which will further the intention of the legislature and remedy the injustice from which the Hindu women have suffered over the years.
Recently a Full Bench of that High Court in Sushilabai Ramachandra Kulkarni vs Narayanrao Gopalrao Deshpande  Ors1 the Gujarat High Court in Vidyaben vs Jagdishchandra N Bhatt2 and the High Court of Orissa in Ananda vs Haribandhu3 have taken the same view.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
3 AIR 1967 Orissa 194.
