About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child according to customary practice were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased s mother.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
After dinner all of them went to sleep.
After holding the inquest the dead body was sent for postmortem examination.
The Medical Officer P W 12 who conducted the autopsy found on the dead body a stab wound over the left axila 6 cms.
In the Committing Court the accused was content with a bare denial but in the Court of Sessions he stated that he went to the house of his mother in law at about 10 pm.
They insulted him.
He felt giddy and was about to lose consciousness.
P W 1 came upon him with a knife to stab him.
Accepting the evidence of P Ws 1 to 3 which was corroborated by the evidence of P Ws 4 and 5 who came to the scene soon afterwards the High Court convicted the accused under Section 302 and sentenced him as aforesaid.
We are unable to find any substance in the submissions made by the learned Counsel for the appellant.
The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P Ws 1 2 and 3 were of a minor character and that they have been unduly magnified by the learned Sessions Judge.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P W 1 and himself.
We do not think that an injury of the nature received by the deceased could have been caused in the manner suggested by the accused.
He probably attributed the refusal to reluctance on the part of his wife to accompany him straightaway.
At one time it was thou ht that an order of acquittal could be set aside for substantial and compelling reasons only and Courts used to launch on a search to discover those substantial and compelling reasons.
It stems out of the fundamental principle of our criminal jurisprudence that the accused is entitled to the benefit of any reasonable doubt.
But fanciful and remote possibilities must be left out of account.
If the preponderance of probability is all one way a bare possibility of another view will not entitle the accused to claim the benefit of any doubt.
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions5 Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
1 61 IA 389.
If the evidence is so strong against a man as to leave only a remote possibility in his favour which can be dismissed with the sentence of course it is possible but not in the least probable  the case is proved beyond reasonable doubt but nothing short of that will suffice.
In Khem Karan  Ors.
vs State of UP  Anr1.
The appeal is dismissed.
P B R Appeal dismissed.
