Chapter VIII of the Act consisting of sections 64 to 71 is entitled Special Areas.
Section 69 by clauses c and d confers upon the Development Authority powers for the purpose of municipal administration and for the purpose of taxation.
Section 69d of the Act of 1973 reads thus 69.
Ordinance No 4 of 1976 inserted certain provisions in the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act.
That amount not having been paid as provided in the agreement respondent 1 terminated the agreement by its letter dated February 4 1977.
That is because the legislature which adopts by incorporation the existing provisions of another law cannot be assumed to intend to bind itself to all future amendments or modifications which may be made in the earlier law.
This position is made clear out of abundant caution by clause 4 of section 133 of the Municipal Corporation Act which provides that nothing contained in section 133 shall apply to the tax mentioned in clause a of sub section 1 of section 132 which shall be charged and levied in accordance with section 135.
It is not possible to accept this submission because sections 127A and 135 of the two Acts in question leave no such choice open to the taxing authority.
The obligation which the statute places upon it is to impose tax on lands where there are lands only and they can be taxed on buildings where buildings alone can be brought to tax and on both lands and buildings where lands are built upon and both can be brought to tax.
What we have said is the plain meaning of the taxing provision.
The mere fact that the entire share capital of the respondent company was contributed by the Central Government and the fact that all its shares were held by the President and certain officers of the Central Government did not make any difference to that position.
Basing himself on that consideration the Attorney General argues 1 By virtue of the declaration contained in section 2 of Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Act 1957 the legislative field covered by Entry 23 19 List II passed on the Parliament by virtue of Entry 54 List I 2 The Parliament enacted the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act 1973 for acquisition of coal mines with a view to reorganising and reconstructing such coal mines so as to ensure the rational coordinated and scientific development and utilisation of coal resources as best to subserve the common good.
It is true that on account of the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Act 1957 the legislative field covered by Entry 23 of List II will pass on to Parliament by virtue of Entry 54 List I.
Shri Dharmadhikari who appears on behalf of the respondents has drawn our attention to the judgment of a Constitution Bench of this Court in HRS Murthy vs Collector of Chittoor and Another which provides a complete answer to the Attorney General s contention.
This contention was repelled by this Court by holding that sections 78 and 79 of the Madras District Boards Act had nothing to do with the development of mines and minerals or their regulation.
The reasoning adopted in this decision shows that it is not correct to say that the property tax provided for in the Act of 1973 is beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature that tax has nothing to do with the development of mines.
That the declaration in section 2 of the does not result in invalidation of every State legislation relating to mines and minerals is demonstrated effectively by the decision in State of Haryana  Anr.
