1073 1100 1117 19 1229 95 142 1554 1746 2140 2155 2271 2396 2459.
1198 1217 1302 12 1314 15 1566 1641 1140 70 2360 95 1643 17252272 232921522332233924913486 89 2498 2521 2522 533 742611 2638 and 2531 of 1983.
LN Sinha Attorney General Anil B DivanB Parthasarthi and KR Chaudhary for the Respondents.
Miss A Subhashini for the Union.
The relevant Fundamental Rules were amended by the first notification while the corresponding rules of the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules were amended by the second notification.
By these notifications every Government servant whether ministerial or non ministerial but not belonging to the last Grade Service who had already attained the age of 55 years was to retire from service with effect from February 28 1983.
The inconvenience alleged by the petitioners in the matter of payment of their pension and other retirement benefits was imaginary since the Government was making extensive arrangements to disburse such benefits expeditiously.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
It is stated in that affidavit that the question of the age of superannuation was not referred to the one Man Pay Commission of Shri A Krishnaswamy which was appointed by the Andhra Pradesh Government on November 3 1 977 that the recommendation made by the Pay Commission was casual and was not based on relevant criteria that as many as 1204008 educated youths were left without employment on September 30 1979 as a result of the unwarranted increase in the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 that the number of unemployed youths had grown to 1784699 by December 31 1982 and that the age of retirement was reduced because it is the duty of the State within the limits of its economic capacity and development to make effective provision to solve the unemployment problem.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance provides that no amendment to the Fundamental Rules shall be deemed to be invalid merely by reason of the fact that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules laid down that the said rules shall not be modified or replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance declares that every amendment made before or after the commencement of the Ordinance to the Fundamental Rules and the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules shall be and shall be always deemed to have applied to all Government employees whether appointed before or after the amendment.
Rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules is omitted by Clause l 8ii while Rule 231 of the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules is omitted by clause 19 of the Ordinance.
The arguments advanced before us fall under distinct heads learned counsel having shared their burden equitably.
Shri RK Garg who appears in a group of three Transferred Cases contends that the Ordinance is bad because it supersedes all industrial adjudications and overrules even settlements arrived at between the management and the employees.
These claims involve considerations of varying vigour and applicability.
Where an act is arbitrary it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Article 14l But while resolving the validity of policy issues like the age of retirement it is not proper to put the conflicting claims in a sensitive judicial scale and decide the issue by finding out which way the balance tilts.
592 lative competence or on the legislative power to pass laws which bear on fundamental rights.
The various Pay Commissions have expressed the view that persons who are required to retire at 593 an early age are compelled by necessity to seek other employments.
Even otherwise not more than one per cent of the unemployed educated youths are likely to get employment as a result of the reduction in the age of retirement from 58 to 55.
e The careful planning by the employees of their important affairs of life like the construction of a house the marriage of a daughter or the repayment of loans has been suddenly set at naught by the reduction in the age of retirement f Two of the most relevant circumstances bearing upon the fixation of the age of retirement have been ignored by the State Government increase in longevity and the prevailing age of retirement in public sector undertakings and g No consideration was given to the plain and direct con sequence of the reduction in the age of retirement namely that the State exchequer would have to find and pay Rs 70 crores on one single day by way of retirement benefits for which no budgetary provision was made It would appear from these contentions as also from the contions advanced by the other learned counsel that the main plank of the petitioners  case is that the decision to reduce the age of retirement from 58 to 55 is unconstitutional because it is arbitrary irrational and unconnected with the object which it seeks to achieve.
The very foundation of this argument is fallacious By GO NO.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the of the Commission cover the review of the existing retirement benefits  the reference would naturally include the age of retirement.
 This was an erroneous and unwarranted reading of the terms of reference.
A review of retirement benefits would undoubtedly cover the examination of the rules or schemes relating to pension provident fund gratuity encasement of leave etc but it cannot include the power to examine the question as regards the fixation of the age of retirement.
The Commission says in the same paragraph as a possible justification of its consideration of the question of the age of retirement that it was mentioned on the floor of the House that this issue is referred to the Commission Our attention has been drawn in this behalf to a statement made in the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council on September 20 1976 by the then Finance Minister Shri G Rajaram to the effect that one of the terms of reference to the Commission was to review the existing retirement age of Government employees.
In any case the power of a Commission to enquire into a question must depend 595 upon the terms of the Reference and not upon the statements made on the floor of the House.
Conversely decisions which are taken promptly cannot be assumed to be bad because they are taken promptly.
Besides we have to consider the validity of a law regulating the age of retirement.
There is a wealth of material on that subject and many a Pay Commission has dealt with it comprehensively.
The State 596 Government had the relevant facts as also the reports of the various Central and State Pay Commissions before it on the basis of which it had to take a reasonable decision.
Both can fall within the constraints of the Constitution and neither the one nor the other can be considered to be arbitrary or unreasonable.
That is the area which permits free play in the joints.
A distinction was however made between ministerial and non ministerial officers presumbly because it was thought that the duties of the former did not suffer from the effects of advancing age as did those of the others and it was decided in effect that subject to continued efficiency ministerial officers should be retained in service till they attained the age of 60.
Paragraph 5 of the Commission s Report mentions that the Varadachariar Commission had recommended earlier that the age for compulsory retirement should be 58 years for all services pensionable and non pensionable with an option to the Government to retire an employee on the ground of loss of efficiency at the age of 55.
Paragraph 6 of the Commission s Report shows that the question was reconsidered in 1963 when the only additional argument advanced against an upward change its adverse effect on educated 599 unemployment.
 The Commission then adverted to the prevailing ages of retirement in foreign countries and reiterated that whether we go by our own vital statistics or by the age of retirement prevalent in other countries there was a clear case for raising the age of superannuation substantially above 55 years.
In paragraph 15 of the Report the Commission considered the effect of increasing the age of retirement on the employment situation and concluded that the likely repercussion of increasing the age of retirement on educated unemployment would not be substantial.
After talking into account all the relevant considerations including the fact that most Government servants themselves do not wish to continue in service until they are worn out and have one foot in the grave the Commission summed up its findings by saying that there was much in favour of and very little against raising the age of superannuation.
A reduction in the age of superannuation would not therefore ipso facto improve the overall employment position for the educated unemployed 5 Any increase in the age of superannuation beyond the age of 58 would reduce during the period of the increase employment opportunities for a very large number of technical engineering and professional students passing out from the universities technical institutions and industrial training institutes  and 6 The age of retirement should not be changed frequently since it has a vital bearing on the career prospects of and the retirement benefits available to Government employees and since it is an important factor in the attractiveness of Government service.
the Commission concluded that there was a case for increasing the retirement age of the State Government employees to 58 years.
According to the Sixth Five Year Plan unemployment would not be eliminated within the Sixth Plan unless efforts were immediately made to make the current unemployed more employable through short term training and vocational programmes and unless special employment programmes are directed towards their absorption.
After stating that the Krishnaswamy Commission was appointed on November 3 1977 for the sole purpose of 603 examining the question of  retirement benefits and that the question of retirement age was not included in its terms of reference the White Paper says that although the Government had accepted the recommendations of the Commission almost in their entirety it did not accept its recommendation that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 years.
By a notification dated September 17 199 the recommendations of the Commission B in regard to the revision of pay scales were accepted by the Government but not so the recommendation regarding increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years.
Consequently the resultant vacancies at the direct recruitment level which would have arisen in the chain of appointments that would follow each retirement were also blocked for 3 years continuously thereby denying the promotion opportunities to inservice personnel and employment opportunities for the unemployed causing a great deal of frustration all round.
 604 The White Paper explains that in order to ensure that the employees who had retired by the end of February 1983 should get their pensionary benefits without delay the Government had constituted a special Pension cell in the Finance Department by a notification dated February 16 1983.
The function of that cell is to monitor the progress of settlement of pension eases In addition it is said the Government had issued instructions by a notification dated February 14 1983 for payment of anticipatory pension at 3110th of the last pay drawn in all cases wherein the sanction of pension was delayed.
on the basis of this data it is difficult to hold that in reducing the age of retirement from 58 to 55 the State Government or the Legislature acted arbitrarily or irrationally.
There are precedents within our country itself for fixing the retirements age at 55 or for reducing it from 58 to 55.
But such is not the case here.
Since the impugned policy is actuated and influenced predominatly by that consideration it cannot be struck down as arbitrary or irrational.
What is vital for the welfare of the citizens is of necessity vital for the survival of the State.
Care must also be taken to ensure that the statistics are not perverted to serve a malevolent purpose 605 Shri VM Tarkunde who appears for some of the petitioners A limited his argument to the contention that arbitrary fixation of retirement age amounts to removal from service and is therefore violative of Article 311 2 of the Constitution This argument has to be rejected because of our conclusion that the reduction of the age of retirement from 58 to 55 in the instant case is not hit by Article 14 or Article 16 since it is not arbitrary or unreasonable in the circumstances of the case.
It is well settled that Article 311 2 is attracted only when a civil servant is reduced in rank dismissed or removed from service by way of penalty that is to say when the effect of the order passed against him in this behalf is to visit him with evil consequences.
Besides the point made by Shri Tarkunde is concluded by a Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Bishun Narain Misra vs State of Uttar Pradesh 6 In that case the Government of Uttar Pradesh and raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years by a Notification dated November 27 1957 but reduced it again to 55 years by a Notification dated May 25 1961.
Learned counsel contends that this decision is of doubtful authority since the Court based its opinion on the majority judgment in Moti Ram Deka vs yGeneral Manager North Frontier Railway7 in which the Court was not called upon to consider and did not consider the validity of a rule of superannuation.
It is true that in Moti Ram Deka the Court was concerned to G 1  2 1955 1 SCR26.
3  4  5 1958 SCR1052.
6 1965 I SCR 693.
7  606 determine the validity of Rules 148 3 and 149 3 of the Railway Establishment Code which provided for the termination of the service of a permanent servant by a mere notice But interestingly the judgment in Bishun Narain Mishra shows that it was the appellant therein who relied on the decision in Moti Ram Deka in support of his contention that the rule by which the age of retirement was reduced to 55 years amounted to removal within the meaning of Article 311 2 The Court held that the decision in Moti Ram Deka had no application to the case before them since that case did not deal with any rule relating to age of retirement.
See page 696 of the Report.
An executive act is liable to be struck down on the ground of non application of mind.
Not the act of a Legislature.
2 119821 SCR 947 at 964 967.
3 19791 SCR 26 608 sions of the Ordinance are in any manner arbitrary or unreasonable and thereby violate Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
This argument of the learned counsel can be rejected for other reasons also we do not propose to deal with these Transferred Cases since there is nothing on record to show that there are any industrial adjunctions or settlements between employers and employees providing for an age of retirement for any section of industrial workers.
2 11952 SCR 597 at 607.
By that amendment a proviso was added to rule 2 which reads thus Provided that the rules shall not be modified or E replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service By GO Ms No 48 dated February 17 1983 this proviso was deleted with retrospective effect from February 23 1979.
The contention of the petitioners is that the proviso which conferred a benefit upon Government servants by protecting their conditions of service cannot be amended so as to empower the Government to alter those conditions to their prejudice and in any event they cannot be amended retrospectively so as to take away rights which had already accrued to them The simple answer to this argument is that the amendment of February 17 1983 to the Fundamental Rules was made by the Government of Andhra Pradesh in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 read with Article 313 of the Constitution.
SR Petitions dismissed.
1   582 585.
2  965.
