Leave to appeal was refused.
Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia who were sentenced to death applied here for special leave to appeal.
We gather that this field is near a river called 1086 Papana.
Both give substantially the same version of what they saw of the assault.
He says he did not know any names at that time and that is evident from the report.
He also admits that he saw Narsabai there but says he did not speak to her.
In the circumstances we think Mahadappa told the truth.
The remaiding four are described as blue and black marks.
We are prepared to disregard the evidence of Rasika and Subhana in so far as they say that Tukaram and Nilia also beat Ramchander because the medical evidence does not disclose any injuries which could have been caused by a stick or sticks.
As a matter of fact Subhana does not ascribe any particular blow either to Tukaram or to Nilia though he does describe in detail what the other three did.
So the part they played was negligible.
Turning now to section 34 that was not charged in Pandurang s case but we need not consider whether such an omission is fatal because even if it had been charged there is no evidence from which a common intention embracing him can legitimately be deduced.
It is true they all ran away when the eye witnesses arrived and later absconded but there is nothing to indicate that they ran away together as a body or that they met afterwards.
As their Lordships say in the latter case the partition which divides their bounds is often very thin nevertheless the distinction is real and substantial and if overlooked will result in miscarriage of justice.
In the present case there is no evidence of any prior meeting.
But to quote the Privy Council again the inference of common intention should never be reached unless it is a necessary inference deducible from the circumstances of the case.
1097 similarity of the facts in one case cannot be used to determine a conclusion of fact in another.
Pandurang is accordingly only liable for what he actually did.
