4053 to 4056 of 1985.
These appeals raise common questions of law and may therefore be disposed of by a common judgment.
A number of appeals were preferred to the Karnataka State Transport Appellate Tribunal.
The Tribunal by its order dated February 28 1985 set aside the grant of the two permits in favour of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation set aside the grant of three out of eleven permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and instead granted three permits to private operators and increased the number of permits granted to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation from one to three.
The decision of this Court in Sher Singh vs Union of India  was distinguished on the ground that in that case the court interpreted the word preference  occurring in section 471 H in the back ground of the provisions of Chapters IV and IV A of the Act under the former of which the State Transport Undertaking would have preference whereas under the latter the State Transport Undertaking would have a monopoly.
The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and some other private operators have filed these appeals by special leave of this Court under article 136 of the Constitution.
637 the preference became operative only if other things were equal.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
A public service vehicle is defined in section 225 as any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward and includes a motor cab contract carriage and stage carriage.
Section 471 C enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
That is how section 471 H was interpreted in Sher Singh s case.
When the Undertaking applies for permit under Chapter IV it must satisfy the Regional Transport Authority that it is better suited than the private operator to render transport facility to the travelling public.
In an application under Chapter IV Corporation has to enter the arena like any other applicant face the competition and come up to the level of other private operators intending to obtain stage carriage permits and then in respect of the route in question claim preference.
Preference in this context would mean that other things generally appearing to be qualitatively and quantitatively equal though not with mathematical accuracy statutory provision will tilt the balance in favour of the Undertaking.
We have no hesitation in saying that all that has been said about preference  in Sher Singh s case in relation to section 471 H applies mutatis mutandis to the preference contemplated by the proviso to section 637.
It was said that the clause contained sufficient guidelines for the exercise of discretion in granting approval by the Central Government.
In the second place we have no indication as to the manner in which the approval of the Central Government is to be sought and granted and the considerations which are expected to weigh with the Central Government.
637 of the .
PSS Appeals allowed.
