But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
This question has been examined by the various High Courts.
It is possible in certain circumstances for a donor to make a valid gift by instructing a firm or a company or a HUF in which the donor has an account to give effect to the gift by debiting his account and crediting the account in the name of the donee.
Reference may also be made for this proposition to the decision of the Delhi High Court in New India Colour Co vs Commissioner of IncomeTax New Delhi The effect of the two aforesaid decisions of the learned fudges of the Delhi High Court indicates that in case there was not sufficient cash balance from out of which the amount gifted could be physically given to the donee more entries in the books of account in the form would not constitute delivery of possession over the gifted property to the donee and gift in such case will not be valid.
See also the cases of Commissioner of Income Tax Bombay City H vs Popatlal Mulji and also in the case of Addl.
The decision of the Privy Council is reported in ILR 1944 at page 617 130 The Punjab and Haryana High Court in Balireal Nawal Kishore vs Commissioner of Income Tax Punjab held that the credit cash balance of the donor was Rs81000 and cash balance with firm was only Rs4299 but the unuti lised overdraft of the firm was Rs 127088.
The gift was held to be valid.
No acceptance was produced.
Property purchased out of gift and income was used by the family.
If the possession enjoyment or benefit of the donor in the property was consistent with the facts and circumstances of the case other than those of the factum of gift it could not be said that the donee had not retained the possession and enjoyment of the property to the entire exclusion of the donor or to the entire exclusion of the donor in any benefit to him by contract or otherwise.
The Tribunal held that section 10 of the was not attracted and the sum of Rs 150000 could not be included in the property passing on the death of M and the High Court on a reference affirmed the viewes of the Tribunal.
This Court held affirming the decision of the High Court that section 10 did not apply to the gifts of Rs 1 lakh and Rs50000 made by the deceased to his son and to his wife respectively.
This Court in the case of Badri Prasad Jagan Prasad vs Commissioner of Income Tax UP judgment by one of us had occasion to refer to the effect of book entries but this question which is present before us in the present appeal was not before this Court in that case.
