MK Ramamurthy CS Vaidyanathan section Ravindra Bhatt Mohan SR Setia and Probir Choudhary for the Respondents.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers with a few exceptions were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
In order to meet the above need section 11 of the Act came to be enacted.
2 Notwithstanding anything con tained in sub section 1 or in any contract of service the Central Government may for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in it or for the purpose of reducing the remuner ation payable to employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyhold ers a reduction is called for alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thinks fit and if the alteration is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months  remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
The whole time employees of the erstwhile insurers whose services were thus transferred to the Corpo ration are hereinafter referred to as the transferred employees  of the Corporation.
As mentioned earlier there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27000 whole time employees working in them.
The above decision of the Bombay High Court was delivered on 1641957.
This order is called the standardisation order .
Leave and retirement In the matter of leave and retire ment Field Officers shall be governed by the same regula tions as are applicable to Class I officers of the Corpora tion.
The employees of the Corporation were divided lati tudinally into two groups.
From the said Class III post he was promoted to the Class I post since there was no necessity to pass through a Class II post before entering a Class I post on 8101963 and was appointed as Assistant Branch Manager Admn.
The Writ Petition was allowed striking down regulation 192 as being violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India and the Corporation was directed not to retire the 1st Respondent before he attained the age of 60 years.
It was pleaded by them that on the establishment of the Corporation under the Act it became necessary to continue the services of the employees of the erstwhile insurers whose life insurance business was taken over by the Corporation to run the business of the Corpora tion because the Corporation had no employees of its own in the month of September 1956 when it was established.
The second limb of sub section.
That power is to be exercised when the Central Government is satisfied that the interests of the Corporation and its Policy holders require such reduction of revision.
There is provision for the transfer of the assets and liabilities pertaining to the business of provident funds 206 superannuation and other like funds of the services of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation and also of the services of existing employees of chief agents of the insurers to the Corporation and finally for the payment of compensation to the insurers for the transfer of the busi ness to the Corporation.
For that reason it is open to the Central Government under sub section to ignore the guarantee contained in sub section 1 of section 11 in favour of the employees or anything contained in the  or any other law for the time being in force or any award settlement or agree ment for the time being in force.
The need for such a provision arises because it is a burden by which the Corporation finds itself saddled upon the transfer a burden not of its own making.
Like any other employer the Corporation is then open to the normal play of industrial relations in contemporary or future time.
So long as the complex of orders so made is necessarily linked with the process of transfer and integration it is immaterial that a succession of orders is made.
In the 210 course of its decision this Court while rejecting the con tention of the petitioners observed thus at pages 635 636 The principles on which discrimination and breach of articles 14 and 16 can be said to result have been by now so well settled that we do not think it necessary to repeat them here once again.
It was also not incumbent on the Government to frame the 1961 Rules uniformly applicable to both the cate gories of teachers firstly because a rule framing authori ty need not legislate for all the categories and can select for which category to legislate see Sakhawat Ali vs State of Orissa  Madhubhai Amathalal Gandhi vs The Union of India  and Vivian Joseph Ferreria vs The Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay  and secondly because it had already come to a decision of gradually diminishing the provincia lised cadre so that ultimately only the state cadre would remain in the service.
 It has to be observed in the case before us also that the transferred employees belong to a diminishing cadre.
Having regard to the lower emoluments and other benefits which the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV are entitled to get from the Corporation and the higher emoluments and other benefits to which officers belonging to Class I and Class II are entitled and also the nature of their work and the powers enjoyed by them we are of the view that fixation of different ages of retirement to the different classes of employees would not by itself be violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
In the Staff Regulations 1956 and the Staff Regulations 1960 there was again a distinction made between the transferred employees and employees re cruited after 1st September 1956.
So long employees are in Class III they can be said to constitute two different classes of transferred and direct appointees but once they are promoted they become similarly situated and the dis tinction stands obliterated.
We may also refer to one decision of the Madras High Court and another decision of the Calcutta High Court which arose trader the provisions of the Banking Companies Acqui sition and Transfer of Undertakings Act 1970 Act 5 to 1970 where again the claim of employees of the banks in question who joined their service after nationalisation to the benefit of the conditions prescribed in the case of employees of the former banking companies whose services were taken over on nationalisation as regards the age of retirement arose for consideration.
The principle enunci ated in this case can be applied to the cases of three officers who belong to the Department of Insurance who joined the service of the Corporation after resigning their posts in the Government of India in the year 1965 there being no chance of any addition to their class.
This Court had to deal with a case involving a similar situation in Railway Board vs A Pitchumani  Several railway companies which were running their own railways in different parts of India were amalaga mated with the Indian Railway Administration in 1947.
A ministerial railway servant who entered Government service on or before the 31st March 1938 and held on that date i a lien or a suspended lien on a permanent post or 219 ii a permanent post in a provision al substantive capacity under Clause d of Rule 2008 and continued to hold the same without interruption until he was confirmed in that post shall be retained in service till the day he attains the age of sixty years.
It may be so.
We may at this stage refer to the following passage in Tamil Nadu Education Department Ministerial  General Subor dinate Service Association vs State of Tamil Nadu  Anr  In Service Jurisprudence integration is a complicated administrative problem where in doing broad justice to many some bruise to a few cannot be ruled out.
