1 of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section 2 also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section.
The reasons therefor follow.
It appears that the company on humanitarian grounds acceded to this request and permitted the petitioner to stay on in the company s flat for six months after his retirement and in accordance with the company s rules he was required to pay compensation for the use of the premises.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
A few days thereafter ie On March 7 1986 the petitioner instituted a suit being Civil Suit No 174 138286 in Small Causes Court Bombay seeking a declaration that he was a tenant of the disputed flat which is now pending.
On June 30 1986 the company merged with the Shipping Corporation of India and all its assets and liabilities were taken over by the Corporation.
It is further pleaded that the petitioner was given the flat for his residence during the period of his employment and that he was bound to vacate the same after his retirement.
In essence the submission is that sub section.
1 of section 630 of the Act makes it an offence where any officer or employee of a company wrongfully withholds possession of 175 such property of the company.
wrongfully withholds possession of it after the termination of his employment.
The section is in two parts.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
b contemplates a case where an officer or employee of a company having any property of a company in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the 176 articles and authorised by the Act.
It would be noticed that cl.
b also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
1 of section 630 is the preservation of the property of a company by the creation of two distinct offences by clauses a and b which arise under different sets of circumstances and it would be rendered nugatory by projecting cl.
a into cl.
b relate to any property of a company as mentioned in cl.
By a curious process of reasoning the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case held that section 630 of the Act applies only to the existing officers and employees and not to those whose employment has been terminated.
a of section 6301 was referable to existing officer or employee of a company while cl.
b was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations as suggested.
b as taking in the property mentioned in cl.
which is an offence under section 630lb of the Act as rightly pointed out by VS Kotwal J in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh supra.
He had been allotted the premises of a flat approximately 3500 square feet in area located at Mayfair Gardens Little Gibbs Road Bombay.
This humanitarian and charitable consideration shown by the company was reciprocated by the petitioner by adopting H 178 an adamant attitude and he declined to vacate the same on one pretext or another.
The Court repelled the contention that section 630 of the Act applies only to the existing officers and employees of the company and not to former officers and employees and that the phrase any such property  used in cl.
a as regards penal consequences squarely covering the case of a past employee or officer.
 In Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi supra Kanade J fol lowed the critical analysis of section 630 made by Kotwal J as above and observed that the entitlement of an officer to the property of the company and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment and the right would stand extinguished with the termination to the employment giving rise to an obligation to hand over the property back to the company and observed If the property is held back the retained possession would amount to wrongful withholding of the property of the company.
 The learned Judge Ashok Agarwal J observes that that has been the consistent view of the High Court and has referred to the subsequent decisions of Khatri j J and Kurdukar J.
Case No 76S1986 and dispose it of as expeditiously as possible and in any event not later than four months from today.
