The agreement recited that the licensee shall not allow any other person to use and occupy the said premises and shall not do any unlawful or illegal business therein.
It was recorded by the court with the expression BC a term of some ambiguity as explained later that the appellant was not claiming protection as a sub tenant under the Rent Act but only the subtenancy as such and therefore it was recorded that as agreed BC .
He recorded further that he thought that BC meant by consent .
In order to go back to the findings of the learned Judge of the Court of Small Cause and the learned High Court Judge found that the appellant had failed to prove that he was a sub tenant of the respondent and the learned Judge found him to be a licensee.
In July 1967 the appellants 1064 filed an application for eviction under section 41 of the .
The contention of the respondent that he was a tenant was negatived by the Small Cause Court Bombay.
The Bombay Rent Act was amended by Maharashtra Act 17 of 1973.
It was further held that it was right that the Court should act in consonance with the spirit of the Maharashtra Amending Act 17 of 1973 but the Court cannot and should not cast the law to the winds or twist or stretch it to a breaking point amounting to almost an absurdity.
Reviewing these decisions Denning LJ had observed at page 384 of the report 1 that to ascertain whether a document created a licence or lease the substance of the document must be preferred to the form 2 the real test was the intention of the parties whether they intended to create a lease or a licence 3 if the document created an interest in the property it is a lease but if it only permitted another to make use of the property of which the legal possession continued with the owner it was a licence and 4 if under the document a party got exclusive possession of the property prima facie he was considered to be a tenant but circumstances might be established which negative the intention to create a lease.
This decision was approved in appeal by this Court in Sohan Lal Naraindas vs Laxmidas Raghunath Gadit where this Court reiterated that the test of exclusive possession was important point.
For this purpose reference may be made to the language used and the restrictions put upon the use of the premises in question by the appellant.
This is a salutary test.
In any event this is a possible view that could be taken.
This Court in Venkatlal G Pittie  Anr.
See in this connection the observations of this Court in Satyanarayan Laxaminarayan Hegde and others vs Mallikarjun Bhavanappa Tirumale AIR 1960 SC 137.
The appeal fails and is dismissed.
NPV Appeal dismissed.
