WITH SLP Civil No 6998 of 1988 VC Mahajan Mrs Indu Goswami CV Subba Rao P Parmeshwaran for the Appellant in CA No 1709 of 1988.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K JAGANNATHA SHETTY J.
He made this entry with ulterior motive to withdraw the pay of Ashok Kumar for the month of May 1969 even though Ash ok Kumar was not working in that Division.
 After a detailed enquiry against the respondent and t wo others the Inquiry Officer found all the three guilty of the charge framed against each of them.
In view of the foregoing it cannot be termed th at the finding returned by the Inquiry Officer is without a ny evidence.
 It was also observed that there was no denial of a reasonable opportunity for the respondent to set up prop er defence.
We therefore direct that the punishment of dismissal awarded to the applicant be reduced to that of stopping of his five increments which he had earned for a period of five years in terms of clause iv of Rule 11 of the Central Civil Services Classification Control a nd Appeal Rules 1965.
T he respondents shah comply with this order within four mont hs from its receipt and pay all consequential benefits to t he applicant.
The question which has to be decided therefore is whether the Tribunal has power to modify the penalty award ed to the respondent when the findings recorded as to h is misdemeanour is supported by legal evidence.
It provides power to Parliament to enact law for establishme nt of Administrative Tribunals for adjudication of disput es with regard to service matters.
The principle that if some of the reasons relied on by a Tribunal for its conclusion tu rn out to be extraneous or otherwise unsustainable its dec i sion would be vitiated applies to cases in which the co n clusion is arived at not on assessment of objective sati s faction.
Considering all these facts this Court felt that it would not be fair to direct a low paid class IV employee to face the hazards of a fresh enquiry.
This power has been conceded to the cou rt in Union of India vs Tulsiram Patel  whe re Madon J observed at 501 502 Where a disciplinary authority comes to know th at a government servant has been convicted on a crimin al charge it must consider whether his conduct which has l ed to his conviction was such as warrants the imposition of a penalty and if so what that penalty should be   35 The disciplinary authority must however bear in mind th at a conviction on a criminal charge does not automatical ly entail dismissal removed or reduction in rank of the co n cerned government servant.
He was found guilty of t he charge framed against him.
