The appellant was not a manufacturer of drums.
4339 41 of 1986 the value of such drumscontainers would also have to be included on a correct interpretation of charging sections namely sec tions 3 and 4 of the Act.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
Reliance was placed for this proposition by the learned Attorney General on the observations of this Court in Gur Sahai Sehgal vs Commissioner of Income Tax Punjab  at 898.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
Learned Attorney General contended that the decision of Indian Oxygen Ltd s case supra cannot be relied on in view of the facts of this case.
Explanation.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression packing as the wrapper container bobbin pirn spool reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped contained or wound.
These were in the storage tanks of the assessee and were as such marketable.
The goods were manufactured without these cylinders.
It has to be borne in mind that such a provision would make the provision really unworkable since in making the assessment of the seller there is no machinery for ascertaining the cost of the packing which might be supplied by the buyer.
It has to be borne in mind that the scheme of old section 4 of the Act and new section 4 is the same as was held by this Court in the case of Bombay Tyre International supra at pages 376 E F 377 H and 378 A B H of the Report.
It is only that degree of secondary packing which is necessary for assessable articles to be in the condition in which it is generally sold in the wholesale market which can be included at the factory gate which should be included in the value of the article.
See the observations of this Court in Bombay Tyre International s case supra at page 393 D  E.
There was no dispute that the cost of primary packing into packets of 10 and 20 and the cost of secondary packing in cartons outers must be included in determining the value of the cigarettes for the purpose of assessment of excise duty since such packing would fall under section 44di of the Act.
He answered that it is not.
There was evidence that 90 of the goods were deliv ered at the time of removal without being put in drums.
But as a matter of fact delivery in drums was only to facilitate their transport in small quantities.
If the answer is yes three kinds of situation may arise.
