It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
2 Until rules are made under sub section 1 my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
 It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
Re cently a Constitution Bench of this Court has held in The India Cement Ltd etc.
We do not find that clause b of Article 304 has any relevance on the point in question.
It is not an imposition made by a law made by the State Legislature on which alone the restriction contemplat ed under Article 304b applies.
If the executive or the administrative authority acts in an arbitrary manner its action would be bad in law and liable to be struck down by the courts but the possibility of abuse of power or arbi trary exercise of power cannot invalidate the statute con ferring the power or the power which has been conferred by it.
We do not therefore find any substance in the contention urged by Shri Nariman.
Under clause 1 of the proviso to the impugned rule 21 a holder of a Parwana granted under the Rules has to pay royalty at the rate of 50 per cent of the royalty payable by the lessees and no royalty is payable by village potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year and by the village potters whose annual production was not exceeding two lakh bricks and who supply at least one lakh bricks to the Rural Housing Board or Panchayats.
Having regard to the broad policy underlying the Constitution if a concession is shown in favour of the poor and the down trodden it cannot be said that the exemption or concession is invalid.
The compe tent officer may grant such Parwana in the following priorities a Individual families to Khanias belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes who do physical work I of excavating minor mineral in the area applied for 415 b Individual families of Khanias  who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in the area applied for.
c New individual Khanias who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in any other areas.
 Rule 33 C provides that the lease shall be granted for one year ending 31st December on a payment of a fee of Rs50 for an area upto 1000 square meters and Rs 100 for an area above 1000 square meters and upto 2000 square meters.
So a comparison of the relevant rules would show that a larger restriction is imposed both on the area in respect of which a Parwana could be issued and the duration of the Parwana right and as also stated that the persons who take quarrying Parwana are persons belonging to the weaker sections of society and if under rule 21 a concession is shown in their favour it cannot be said that there is no reasonable nexus between the classification for purposes of the proviso to rule 21 to show concession in the matter of payment of royalty and the social policy underlying the Constitution the statute and the Rules.
We do not therefore find any substance in any of the contentions urged before us.
