1947 relating to Door No 3 Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint covered an area of 8700 sq.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 93.
The Rent Controller and on appeal the Court of Small Causes were therefore called upon to give their decision on this question which was completely within their statutory jurisdiction and this decision certainly constitutes res judicata between the parties see also Explanation VIII to section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
It was therefore not open to the High Court to entertain a collateral attack on the validity of binding nature or correctness of the order of the Court of Small Causes and to consider and determine afresh the issue as to whether the LIC is the owner of the premises as claimed or not.
It would follow from this therefore that if notice to quit was necessary it would be merely one of the issues to be decided by the Rent Controller and would not in any way affect his jurisdiction to entertain the applica tion.
At that stage therefore the respondents could not have hoped to succeed even if their stand that they were the owners of the superstructure had been accepted.
as the case may be.
We think that this contention is well founded.
The tenants wanted to contend in reply that the village in question was an estate within the meaning of the Act and they had occupancy rights therein.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
The High Court held that the sale deed and rent note were sham documents that the decrees of the Court of Small Causes did not operate as res judicata and that section 92 of the Indian Evidence Act did not preclude the respondent from establishing the true nature of the transac tion.
P Kondalamma and another AIR 1983 AP 2 19.
The plaintiff thereupon filed a suit for a declaration of as title and right to continue in possession and enjoyment of the suit land subject to payment of ryot wari or other cess to be imposed by Government without any interference from the Government.
There is no doubt that since an application for this purpose cannot lie except at the instance of a landlord or a tenant the Rent Controller has to deal with this incidentally but this is not one of the direct issues before the Rent Controller.
We have al ready referred to the effect of the provisions of section 10 2vii read with the proviso to section 101 and pointed out how jurisdiction to decide questions of title is denied to the Rent Controller.
In our opinion on a proper construction of the Rent Control Act the question on which the jurisdiction of the civil court is excluded is only the determination as to the fair rent of the premises.
