He purchased certain raw materials in the State without paying tax thereon in view of the provision con tained in section 24 of the Act.
The Act is a much amended one and Some of its provi sions have been recently amended with retrospective effect from 27th May 1971 a point of time when actually a prede cessor Act the Punjab General Sales Tax Act 1948 had been in force.
The provisions of the statute relevant for our purpose and their relevant amendments may be noticed first 347 1.
 b Act 13 of 1989 amended the Explanation by inserting in it after the words section 9 the words or section 24.
So we have to proceed on the basis that the underlined words never were there in el.
Section 6 Section 6 the charging section read as under 6.
b section 6 was amended by Act I of 1990 to read as follows with retrospective effect from 275.
The section originally read thus section 9 Liability to pay purchase tax Where a dealer pur chases goods other than those specified in the Schedule B from any source in the State and a uses them in the State in the manufacture of i goods specified in Schedule B or ii any other goods and disposes of the manufac tured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale whether within the State or in the course of inter State trade or commerce or in the course of export out of the territory of India 350 b exports them in the circumstances in which no tax is payable under any other provision of this Act there shall be levied subject to the provisions of section 17 a tax on the purchase of such goods at such rate as may be notified under section 15.
 b Act 44 of 1976 made two amendments to this sub section.
The second amendment which is crucial for the purposes of this case is the addition at the end of sub clause ii of clause a above the words within the meaning of sub section 1 of section 5 of the .
 These amendments were effective from 141976.
V Section 24 section 24 is the next section relevant for our purposes.
However it added a new sub section 3 with retrospective effect from 275.
In view of the circumstances outlined above we are of the opinion that the High Court was right in concluding that the assessee 362 was not entitled to the exemption under section 9because the sales made by him were not sates in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of section 51 of the .
Even in such a case if the transport of goods from the assessee s place of business to the port is in pursuance of the terms of the sale the movement of the goods would be occasioned by the sale made by the assessee and would be an inter State sale.
As pointed out by Sri Agarwal even in Mohd Sirajuddin s case supra although the exemption claimed for the sales as export sales was denied the conclusion of the High Court that the sales to STC were inter State sales chargeable under section 51 of the CST Act was upheld.
This contention it seems to us proceeds on a misconception of the issue before and the ratio of the decision of this Court in the Goodyear case  That was a case in which certain dealers having purchased raw materials and manufactured goods inside the State despatched those goods outside the State otherwise than by way of sale.
This definition includes within the definition of turnover  the purchase value of goods liable to tax under section 9 but the goods presently in question are not laible to tax under section 9 not only as contended for the assessees and held by us above but also on the hypothesis as to the invalidity of section 91b on which the present argument on behalf of the Revenue pro ceeds.
