Petition No 15001 of 1989.
K Ram Kumar SA Ahmed Tanweer Abdul and Mohan Pandey for the Respondents.
Seshiah married two wives.
Sudarshan and Anand Babu led claim to the entire property of Subbamma exclusively to each of them under two different wills said to be by subbamma and each contended that the other will was a forged one.
The question as to recording of the compromise was taken up by the Court and parties have been heard.
The alienations are for about a purported consideration of Rs 4 lakhs.
Admittedly the transfers are pendente lite.
The alienees have made an attempt to hold out that there were agreements for sale prior to the compromise for which there is no acceptable evidence.
Mr Ram Kumar who appeared for the second respondent apart from maintaining that his client has not received the sum of Rs1 lakh has not been able to point out any justification as to why the compromise should not be acted upon and on the basis of it the litigation may not be disposed of.
The factum of compromise is not in dispute.
He sought to rely on certain decisions which on being referred to were found to be totally inapplicable to the facts of the case.
vs Janaki Dei  Ors AIR 1980 Ori.
108 where the power of the Court under Order 23 rule 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure in the face of an objection of one of the parties to the compromise was considered.
Relying upon several authorities of different High Courts and one of the Privy Council referred to in the decision the High 542 Court held that once the Court was satisfied that there was a compromise it was for the Court to record the same and no option lay before the Court to act otherwise.
The alienees have no right created under the alleged sale deeds.
Their possession is without authority of law.
In view of the fact that there was the allegation of payment of Rs 1 lakh to Sudarshan Gupta which we have not investigated and to meet the further allegation that some improvements have been made to the property which too we have not gone into we direct that the mesne profits shall be set off against the same.
Under orders of this Court security has been furnished for mesne profits.
In view of the aforesaid direction the security furnished in the Trial Court shall stand discharged and the alienees will have no liability to account for mesne profits.
543 4.
If necessary the Trial Court may appoint a Commissioner and take police help for executing this order and such cost shall ultimately be borne by the defaulting alienees but may initially be met by Seshiah.
There would be no order for costs.
