PN Duda N Safaya PK Choudhary and Ms Rekha Pandey for the Petitioners.
Kapil Sibal Additional Solicitor General Ms A Subha shini and K Swamy for the Respondents.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution the petitioners have questioned the con stitutional validity of Section 5 of the 12 of 1919 hereinafter called the Act .
The grounds on which the vires of the provisions is attacked are that the section gives an unguided unchanelised and arbitrary power to the State Government to include any substance as poison for the purpose of restriction to be imposed on the posses sion for sale and sale of the same.
 According to them therefore the substance manufactured by them would not come within the amended Rules.
Before us also they had not placed any materi al to show that the finding was wrong or that the substance would not come within Rule 2x2.
Originally the Act contained a schedule in which the list of substances declared as poisons were listed.
Presumption as to specified poisons Any substance specified as a poison in a rule made or notification issued under this Act shall be deemed to be a poison for the purpose of this Act.
 It was a law in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and as such continued in force.
Section 23 of the  11904 defined poison as Any substance which were applied to the body internally or externally or in any way intro duced into the system is capable without acting mechanically but by its own inherent qualities.
It is those substances which the Govern ment consider its possession for sale or sale to be regulat ed in the interest of health and safety of the society.
Of course no comprehensive definition can be given to the word poison.
A substance may be a deadly poison or a valuable medicine according to how and how much is taken.
If the resultant effect of administering into the system pro duces a violent morbid or fatal changes or which destroys living tissues the substance can be safely called poison.
Any substance which is used for purposes mentioned therein can definitely be declared as poison.
In many cases deaths have also occurred due to drinking such substance.
If the Government thought in the circumstances that the posses sion or sale of the same is to be regulated it could not be said that they have no power to regulate.
It is in exercise of this power Rule 13 was amended by substituting the old Rule by the following Rule 13 1 All poisons kept for sale by any licence holder under these rules except those kept by a chemist druggist or compounder for the purchase of dispensing or compounding in compliance with the prescription of medical or veterinary practitioner shall be kept in a box almirah room or building according to the quantity maintained which shall be secured by lock and key and in which no sub stance shall be placed other than poisons possessed in accordance with a licence granted under the Act and each poison shall be kept within such box almirah room or building in a separate closed receptacle of glass metal or earthenware.
Every such box almirah room or building and every receptacle shall be marked with the word poison  in red charac ters both English and vernacular and in the case of receptacles containing separate poison  with the name of such poison .
ii All poisons  mentioned in clause x of rule 2 shall be kept in a room or building according to quantity maintained which shall be secured by lock and key in a separate receptacle of glass metal and earthenware etc.
Every such room building and every such receptacle shall be marked with the word poison  in red character both English and vernacular with the name of the poison .
 We are not impressed with the argument that any require ment in this Rule is unreasonable or offends the petition ers  right to carry on any trade or business.
A law in such circumstance can regulate the trade.
This posi tion is well settled and it would be pedantic to cite all the authorities of this Court on this point.
It is also not necessary that the same substance should be declared as poison for the entire country.
We are of opinion that the provisions of neither Section 2 nor 5 nor the impugned notification are hit by any consti tutional limitation.
The writ petition accordingly fails and it is dismissed.
Rule nisi is discharged.
No order as to costs.
