The appellant before us in both the appeals is the Commissioner of Income tax and the respondents are the two assessees in one case a Bank and the other a private limited company.
In C A No 25958 the assessee is a public limited company incorporated in the State of Cochin with branches in that State as well as in what was British India and in Travancore State.
The Income tax Officer determined its assessable income to be Rs 90947 representing only the profit it made in Travancore State and under section 321 proviso 1 of the Travancore Act he refused a deduction of Rs 79275 shown as loss from branches situate outside the State of Travancore in British India and other Indian States.
The assessee s appeal to the Income tax Commissioner was unsuccessful but the Appellate Tribunal held that the banking business of the assessee being one and indivisible for the purpose of determining the amount assessable to income tax it was entitled to deduct the losses incurred outside Travancore State from the profits accruing and arising in that State.
In C A 26058 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
It was carrying on business at its head office in Cochin State and it also carried on business in Travancore State.
It may be stated that the relevant sections of the Travancore Act which govern the two appeals are identically worded with those of the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 to be called the Indian Act.
It carves out an exception to the main provision to which it has been enacted as a proviso and to no other .
Thus the mere use of the words loss of profits or gains to be set off against profits and gains would not be sufficient to restrict the scope of the proviso to the profits and losses arising under the head business in the two territories i e British India and the Indian States.
Counsel for the Revenue did not go to this extent that because profits were exempted losses could not be deducted his argument was that because before 1939 income was not chargeable unless it was received or accrued in British India therefore business in section 10 could only mean business in British India.
41950 5 269 argument does not take note of the definition of total income total world income  and chargeability of total income under section 3 or the provisions of section 4 where in the case of a resident total income  includes income profits and gains accruing within or without I British India.
But then it was said that as the profits or gains of business in an Indian State were exempted from payment of tax in British India business in section 10 must mean business in British India.
We find it unnecessary to refer to them because we have indicated above what is the correct sphere of a proviso and what proviso i to section 241 means.
Appeals dismissed.
