It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
2 Until rules are made under sub section 1 my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
 It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
In exercise of the said power under section 15 the Government of Gujarat promulgated the Gujarat Minor Minerals Rules 1966 which are referred to as the Rules as stated above.
Re cently a Constitution Bench of this Court has held in The India Cement Ltd etc.
In the instant case the levy is made under a law made by the Central Gov ernment.
It is not an imposition made by a law made by the State Legislature on which alone the restriction contemplat ed under Article 304b applies.
We do not also find much substance in the contention that the levy in question is unreasonably heavy and has been imposed in an arbitrary manner.
Having regard to the depreci ation in the value of 413 the rupee and the increase in the cost of  administration of the State which is ever increasing as a welfare State we cannot say that Rs7 is an unreasonably high rate.
If the executive or the administrative authority acts in an arbitrary manner its action would be bad in law and liable to be struck down by the courts but the possibility of abuse of power or arbi trary exercise of power cannot invalidate the statute con ferring the power or the power which has been conferred by it.
He con tended that the concession shown in favour of Parwana hold ers was discriminatory and violative of Article 14.
It is obvious that a valid classification of persons and things for 414 purposes of imposing any obligation on them would not be violative of Article 14 provided the classification is a reasonable one.
It is equally clear that while levying a tax the authority con cerned is entitled to grant concessions and exemptions wherever necessary having regard to the purpose of the Act the levy of royalty is incidental to the regulation and development of minerals.
Having regard to the broad policy underlying the Constitution if a concession is shown in favour of the poor and the down trodden it cannot be said that the exemption or concession is invalid.
Rule 33 B of the Rules reads thus 33B Grant of quarrying Parwana On an application made to the competent officer he may grant a quarrying Parwana to extract and remove from the specified area within his jurisdiction the minor mineral from a plot not exceeding 2000 square meters as may be specified by the competent officer.
c New individual Khanias who do physical work in excavating minor minerals in any other areas.
 Rule 33 C provides that the lease shall be granted for one year ending 31st December on a payment of a fee of Rs50 for an area upto 1000 square meters and Rs 100 for an area above 1000 square meters and upto 2000 square meters.
