dThat an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiffs  coal land as also the quantity of the coal rendered unworkable be ascertained and a decree for the value thereof by way of damages be granted to the plaintiffs against the defendants.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
As the plan is a part of the lease deed it is clear from the plan that the northern boundary of the leasehold of Samanta is the said line.
But a perusal of exhibit I shows that there is no reference in regard to the western boundary to revenue records.
He held that article 48 of the Limitation Act applied to the suit and that the appellant had failed to prove that the respondents had knowledge of the sinking of the quarries and pits in the encroached land.
But the question is whether they have adduced evidence which had the effect of shifting the onus of proof to the appellant.
He stated in his evidence that the appellant had encroached upon the South Kujamal Colliery in Seam Nos 10 11 and 12 and another special seam known as 4 feet seam and that in August 1941 be came to know about the encroachment for the first time when the Mines Department forwarded a plan of the joint workings of the two collieries of the parties.
In the cross examination two suggestions were made to him namely that in 1932 there was a survey of the plaintiffs  and defendants  coal land by the Mines Department and that Seam Nos 11 and 12 were 1 Pat 312.
He denied that he had any knowledge of the said two facts.
After noticing the words in the last column of the article the learned Judges proceeded to observe thus  The starting date of limitation in the case of conversion is the date when the person who has the right to possession first learns of the act of conversion.
 Adverting to the burden of proof the learned Judges observed There is nothing in the pleadings which would show precisely at what period tile plaintiff or the plaintiff s agent which is the same thing became aware of the sale and its wrongfulness that is to say became aware of the fact of conversion.
503 onus of proof may shift to the defendant.
But to say that no duty is cast upon the plaintiff even to allege the date when they had knowledge of the defendant s possession of the converted property and that the entire burden is on the defendant is contrary to the tenor of the article in the Limitation Act and also to the rules of evidence.
 In Talyarkhan vs Gangadas 3 Rangnekar J formulated the legal position thus The onus is on the plaintiff to prove that he first learnt within three years of the suit that the property which he is seeking to recover was in the possession of the defendant.
504 took us through the correspondence that passed between the parties and the Mining Department in 1932.
But it does not prove that the respondents had knowledge of the fact that the appellant had encroached upon any portion of their coal mines.
But the courts found from Commissioner s maps that in the encroached portion there were only underground workings and that the quarries were mostly outside the encroached area.
In the written statement the defendants did not deny the fact that the coal still left in the encroached area was lost to the plaintiffs but only stated that it was purely a question of statutory obligation on the part of the plain.
Appeal dismissed.
