Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated  March 6 1967 of the Orissa High Court in OJC Nos.
Shri PC Dey.
e Shri PK Mohanti district and sessions judge Bolangir Kalahandi as deputy secretary to the law department a post which was vacant then and f Shri PC Dey member sales tax tribunal as district and sessions judge Bolangir Kalahandi.
As mentioned earlier member sales tax tribunal was an ex cadre post.
As seen earlier the cadre of the superior judicial service senior branch consisted of not only the posts of district and sessions judges and addl.
Before considering the correctness of that submission it is necessary to notice that this argument breaks down when we come to the question of filling up the post of the Registrar.
1  2  161 namely whether the power to transfer District Judges is included in the control  exercisable by the High Court over District Courts under article 235 or in the power of appointment of persons to be and the posting and promotion of district judges  which is to be exercised by the Governor under article 233 albeit in consultation with the High Court.
163 be quoted for a proposition that may seem to follow logically from it.
 It is not a profitable task to extract a sentence here and there from a judgment and to build upon it.
At the end of that period the government is bound to allow him to go back to his parent department unless the High Court agrees to spare his services for some more time.
Except for very good reasons we think the High Court should always be 164 willing to spare for an agreed period the services of any of the officers under its control for filling up such executive posts as may require the services of judicial officers.
As Shri KK Bose and Shri BK Patro had not been placed at the disposal of the government for any definite period it was open to the High Court to recall them and post them as presiding officers of district courts.
But it was beyond the powers of the High Court to post Shri KB Panda as the law secretary Shri T Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri PK Mohanti as the deputy law secretary.
