An industrial dispute between these workmen and the management of Orient Paper Mills Ltd hereinafter referred to as the Company was referred by the State Government under section 101 d of the Industrial Disputes Act hereinafter referred to as the Act for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
 The Tribunal in giving its decision kept this principle in view but came to the finding of fact that there were no other concerns in the same line of business as the Company in the region which could be compared with the Company.
 On the basis of this finding of fact the Tribunal held that if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which in its opinion would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case then a revision was really necessary.
Finally it was argued that other amenities being provided by the Company should also be taken into account when fixing the minimum wage.
673 We may at this stage take notice of the fact that in con sidering the question of minimum wage the Tribunal had in view the total wage packet to be received by each workman and in the opinion of the Tribunal it consisted of three elements.
He has stated that the Alumihium Factory at Hirakud carries on its work with the help of highly automatic machines and is  supplied electricity by the Government at subsidised rates.
Comparing with them there is justification for fixing the total wage packet of the workmen in the Company at Rs 95 which would include production bonus.
Consequently in varying the award of the Tribunal we would direct that the total minimum wage packet of a workman in the Company shall be fixed at Rs 95 consisting of  the three elements of basic wage dearness allowance and production bonus.
Consequently we are unable to hold that the Tribunal has committed any error and that in this respect any interference by us is called for.
Even though arrears will have to be paid for about 6 years it has to be kept in view that since then there has been a very considerable rise in the Price index and the labour has not so far raised a fresh dispute for a further revision of wages over and above the wages fixed by the Tribunal which are being now refixed by us.
At that time the year 1962 63 was still running and the accounts for that year could not possibly have been closed and made available.
