Applications by respondent No 1 for revocation of the certificate granted by the Madras High Court on 15th October 1968 under article 1331a  b of the Constitution of India.
AND Civil Appeals Nos 2183 and 2184 of 1968.
Appeals from the judgment and order elated October 9 1968 of the Madras High Court in OSA No 25 and 27 of 1968.
MK Ramamurthi Shyamala Pappu and Vineet Kumar for respondent No 1.
Rameshwar Nath and Mahinder Narain for respondent No 2.
Ms Tarapore  Company hereinafter called the plaintiffs applied in Suit No 118 of 1967 for an interim injunction restraining the Bank of India Ltd the first defendant in the suit from taking any steps in pursuance of a letter of credit opened in favour of Ms VO Tractors Export Moscow the second defendant.
Ramamurthi J by order dated April 12 1968 granted an interim injunction restraining encashment of the letters of credit pending disposal of the suit.
In appeals under the Letters Patent preferred by the second defendant.
 The suit filed by the plaintiffs is a civil proceeding and the suit involves some claim or question respecting property of not less than twenty thousand rupees.
In the present case not even an issue has been decided and it is not contended that the order of the High Court amounts to a judgment or a decree.
Against that order an appeal was preferred to the Judicial Committee which was held not maintainable.
During the pendency of the suit them Bombay Prevention of Ex communication Act 42 of 1949 was enacted and one of the issues raised in the suit was whether the order of ex communication was invalid.
Against the order deciding the issue an appeal was preferred to this Court with certificate granted by the High Court under article 132 and article 133 of the Constitution and it was held that the appeal was not maintainable since the decision on the issue did not finally dispose of the dispute between the parties.
In Srinivasa Prasad Singh vs Kesho Prasad Singh1 an order deciding that circumstances had not been established such as would justify an order for stay of execution of a decree under appeal was not a final order and was on that account not appealable to the judicial Committee.
