1 To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to work in connection with or incidental or ancillary to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of commercial establishment.
Before dealing with the contentions canvassed before us it will be useful to notice briefly the scheme and the relevant provisions of the Act.
It shall apply in the first instance.
 Establishment means a shop a commercial establishment residential hotel restaurant eating house theatre or other places of public amusement or entertainment to which this Act applies and includes such other establishment as Government may by notification in the Official Gazette 35 3 declare to be an establishment for the purposes of the Act.
 It will be seen that while the definition of establishment includes a shop  and commercial establishment the definitions of shop  and commercial establishment  are mutually exclusive.
Further the definition of commercial establishment is wider than that of shop.
A place in order to fall within the definition of commercial Establishment must in the first instance be premises.
 Mr Pai further maintains that the ratio in R K Mittal s case supra is not applicable to the instant case because the definition of  industry in section 2j of the is far wider than that of commercial establishment in section 25 of the Act.
As regards the preliminary objection it is true that before the High Court it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
Alternatively it was contended that the case fell within part b of the definition of commercial establishment inasmuch as its activities were connected with trade and business generally.
We therefore overrule the preliminary objection.
An examination of the activities of the Federation showed that the Federation carried on systematic activities to assist its members and other businessmen and industrialists and even to non members as for instance in giving them the right to subscribe to their bulletin in taking up their cases and solving their difficulties and in obtaining concessions and facilities from them from the Government.
