Civil Appeal No 1231 of 1968.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 20th December 1962 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Civil Appeal No 151 of 1960.
B D Bal with A G Ratnaparkhi for the appellant.
After the passing of the Bombay Public Trusts Act 1950 No 29 of 1950 briefly the Act an application under section 18 of that Act was filed by three persons Bhaskarrao Chimanrao Deshmukh Ramrao Sahebrao Deshmukh and Ramkrishna Tryambak Deshpande as constituted attorneys of Vasudeobuwa who was described in the application as the owner of the property.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
Guru Govindbuwa was the second in the line of succession after Sakharam the founder and Balkrishnabuwa being the third in the line.
That ownership is of your own.
From the above the appellant contends that the Sansthan was a private property and it was also transferred to the Shishya Adhikari to maintain it as his own property.
Although it is stated in the document that Balkrishnabuwa was carrying on the Malaki he at the same time states with regard to the Sansthan thus  the same was entrusted to me by Shri Guru Maharaj  x x x x x I therefore thought that I should entrust the work of the Sansthan to you and have appointed you to the said Sansthan.
As stated above we are unable to hold that recitals in these documents taken as a whole can reasonably lead to the conclusion that the Sansthan is a private property.
Again in the gift deed exhibit 39 the donee is described as Shri Rukhmini Pandurang Sansthan Sansthan Amalner Sakharam Maharaj at present Vasudev Buwa Guru Bal 525 krishna Maharaj.
Distinguishing the decision of the Privy Council in Bahu Bhagwan Din vs Gir Har Saroon on the ground that the properties in that case were granted not in favour of an idol or temple but in favour of one Daryao Gir who was maintaining a temple and to his heirs in perpetuity this Court further held in the above decision But in the present case the endowment was in favour of the idol itself and the point for decision is whether it 527 was private or public endowment.
Are the members of the public entitled to an entry in the temple  Are they entitled to take part in offering service and taking Darshan in the temple  Are the members of the public entitled to take part in the festivals and ceremonies arranged in the temple  Are their offerings accepted as a matter of right The participation of the members of the public in the Darshan in the temple and in the daily acts of worship or in the celebrations of festivals occasions may be a very important factor to consider in deter mining the character of the temple.
Examples do occur where the founder may grant property to his spiritual preceptor and his disciples in succession with a view to maintain one particular spiritual family and for perpetuation of certain rights and ceremonies which are deemed to be conducive to the spiritual welfare of the founder and his family.
