About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child according to customary practice were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
The accused and P W 8 went away.
After dinner all of them went to sleep.
After holding the inquest the dead body was sent for postmortem examination.
In the Committing Court the accused was content with a bare denial but in the Court of Sessions he stated that he went to the house of his mother in law at about 10 pm.
He felt giddy and was about to lose consciousness.
Accepting the evidence of P Ws 1 to 3 which was corroborated by the evidence of P Ws 4 and 5 who came to the scene soon afterwards the High Court convicted the accused under Section 302 and sentenced him as aforesaid.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 pm was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P 15 the wound certificate given by PW 13 the Medical officer in respect of the injuries which he found on the person of the accused.
He urged that the knife was not seized by the Police under any seizure Memo nor was the knife sent to any finger print expert.
He also contended that two views were possible on the evidence and the accused was entitled to the benefit of doubt.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P W 1 and himself.
He probably attributed the refusal to reluctance on the part of his wife to accompany him straightaway.
At one time it was thou ht that an order of acquittal could be set aside for substantial and compelling reasons only and Courts used to launch on a search to discover those substantial and compelling reasons.
However the formulae  of substantial and compelling reasons good and sufficiently cogent reasons and strong reasons and the search for them were abandoned as a result of the pronouncement of this Court in Sanwat Singh  Ors.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
But fanciful and remote possibilities must be left out of account.
If the preponderance of probability is all one way a bare possibility of another view will not entitle the accused to claim the benefit of any doubt.
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions5 Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
1 61 IA 389.
If the evidence is so strong against a man as to leave only a remote possibility in his favour which can be dismissed with the sentence of course it is possible but not in the least probable  the case is proved beyond reasonable doubt but nothing short of that will suffice.
In Khem Karan  Ors.
P B R Appeal dismissed.
