ON Criminal Appeal No 126 of 1955.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 9th August 1955 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 726 of 1955.
M R Parpia J B Dadachanji and section N Andley for the appellant.
M C Setalvad Attorney General for India B Sen and R H Dhebar for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by JAGANNADHADAS J.
These proceedings relate to the validity of an order of detention passed by the Government of Bombay on the 8th June 1955 against the appellant before us who is an Advocate of the High Court of Bombay having a standing of about thirty years.
He was in the Indian Air Force as an emergency Commissioned Officer between 1943 to 1948 and thereafter on extension for another four years until he attained the age of 55.
It appears that he was also interested in journalism and in public affairs.
On his own showing he was concerned over the political future of Goa and was opposed to any attempts at intimidation of Indian residents of Goan origin by other political groups and has freely expressed these views in his journalistic articles.
He was arrested on the 9th June 1955 and is in detention since then under the impugned order which runs as follows 384 No P D A 1555A Political and Services Department Secretariat Bombay 8th June 1955.
O R D E R.
These activities which are being carried on by you with the object of causing further deterioration in the relations between the Portuguese Government and the Indian Government over the question of Goan National Movement are prejudicial to the security of India and to the relations of India with Portugal.
2If you wish to make a representation against the order under which you are detained you should address it to the Government of Bombay and forward it through the Superintendent Arthur Road Prison Bombay.
3You are also informed that you have a right to claim a personal hearing before the Advisory Board and that you should communicate to Government of Bombay as soon as possible your intention of exercising or not exercising that right.
Such a right to call for particulars has been recognised in the case in the State of Bombay vs Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya1 as flowing from his constitutional right to be afforded a reasonable opportunity to make a representation to the Board.
Assuming however that the grounds furnished in this case are open to the challenge of vagueness the further question which arises is whether the validity of the order of detention can be sustained by reason of the claim in public interest of non disclosure of facts made by the Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay by means of his affidavit filed in the High Court.
1The right to be furnished grounds of detention as soon as may be and 2The right to be afforded the earliest opportunity of making a representation against his detention 1  184 391 which implies the right to be furnished adequate particulars of the grounds of detention to enable a proper representation being made.
But the right of the detenue to be furnished particulars is subject to the limitation under article 226 whereby disclosure of facts considered to be against public interest cannot be required.
The meaning is clear that at no time it was in public interest to disclose the details referred to in the particular paragraph of the affidavit and there is nothing to suggest that this question was not considered by the detaining authority at the time when the grounds were furnished.
