RK Garg Mrs Urmila Sirur and Shiv Pujan Singh for the Respondents.
It was claimed that in the event of Mahant Sadashiva Yati being found out of possession a decree for possession should be made.
He alleged that Mahant Shivshanker Yati owned personal properties which included the properties in village Amauli that he was the chela of Mahant Shivshanker Yati and the Amauli properties had passed to him under a will executed by the Mahant.
Two appeals were filed in the High Court.
It held that the Amauli properties had been purchased by Shivshanker Yati in 1921 from 662 the personal and separate funds inherited by him from his predecessor Shivpher Yati and that the Amauli properties must therefore be regarded as his personal and separate properties and they did not belong to the Math or the deity.
It is admitted between the parties that the Amauli properties were purchased by Mahant Shivshankar Yati for Rs 40000 forming part of a fund left behind by his predecessor Mahant Shivpher Yati.
It was observed in Sushil Chandra Sen vs Gobind Chandra Dasl that Dashnami sanyasis mixed freely in the business world and carried on trade and often accumulated property.
663 There is reason to believe that Mohant Shivbaran Yati Mohant Shivpher Yati and Mahant Shivshankar Yati were not celibates and had been grihasthas and were entitled to possess enjoy and acquire personal property.
He was granted a succession certificate by the District Judge Ghazipur in respect of the two fixed deposits made by Mahant Shivpher Yati in the Bank of Bengal.
Mahant Shivshankar Yati employed the inherited money in the purchase of two properties in village Amauli in 1921 paying Rs 30000 for a full interest in one property and Rs 10000 for a moiety share in the other.
It is urged for the appellants that where a nucleus of dedicated property exists the acquisition of additional property should be attributed to the application of the nucleus and must therefore be regarded as property belonging to the Math or the deity.
As has been observed there can be no presumption either way.
All the facts and circumstances must be taken into consideration and on a balancing of the entire evidence it has to be determined whether the property can be said to belong to the Math or deity or is the personal property of the Mahant the burden of proof resting on the party who makes the claim.
In the present case it is difficult to conclude from the material before us that the total income from the properties belonging to the Math and the deity left any appreciable surplus after meeting the expenditure on account of bhog arpan deepdan daily and annual puja and the other obligations specified in the waqf deed.
It is pointed out before us that in assessment proceedings under the U P Agriculture Income Tax Act 1948 the Amauli properties were described by Mahant Shivshankar Yati as properties of the Math and therefore a claim to exemption from the levy was made.
In our judgment the High Court is right in the view that the Amauli properties constitute the personal property of Uma Shankar Yati and do not form part of the properties of the Math Sauna or of the deity Sri Thakur Gokarneshwar Mahadeoji.
In the result the appeal is dismissed with costs.
