From Annexure B it would appear that the permission so granted was in favour of Ved Ved Gupta in his individual capacity and not as the representative of any firm.
Clause 15 of the said deed provided that the site for construction of a Cinema which had been obtained on lease by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar in their own names shall not be their personal property but shall be the property of the partnership and that the permission which Ved Gupta had obtained from the Government for construction of the Theatre in the said plot shall be treated as the property of the partnership.
In March 1980 the licence for the Theatre was renewed by the District Magistrate in the name of Ved Gupta.
In being served with the order of injunction Ved Gupta wrote to the District Magistrate on September 24 1980 that it had become impossible for him to operate the Cinema licence in view of the temporary injunction issued by the District Court and since it is only the licensee who is held responsible under the Act and the Rules for due compliance with all the terms and conditions of the licence and answerable to the licensing authority for all commissions and omissions in the Cinema premises he may be saved from any prosecution or other action under law in the capacity of licensee of the Apsara Theatre in respect of any illegal acts or offences committed by others in the said premises.
16980 has intimated that there was exhibition of films on 25th September 1980 in Apsara Theatre by persons other than the licensee And whereas under the provisions of the Cinematograph Act read with rules none other than licensee is permitted to exhibit films during the currency of the licence without permission of the licensing authority Now therefore I A Sahasranaman District Magistrate Jammu hereby order that exhibition of films in Apsara Theatre will remain suspended till further orders.
This order shall come into force with immediate effect.
2 If the judges composing the bench are equally divided on any point they shall state the point upon which they differ and the case shall then be heard upon that point by one or more of the other Judges designated for the purpose by the Chief Justice and such point shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority if any of the judges who have heard the case including those who first heard it.
3 If there is no such majority then the decision shall be in accordance with the decision of the senior Judge except in the case of an appeal from a decree where such decree shall be confirmed 586 In the opinion of the Division Bench the present case was governed by sub rule 3 of Rule 23 and consequently the decision in the case had to be in accordance with the opinion of the senior Judge.
Accordingly the Division Bench passed orders in CMP No 454 of 1981 that the Letters Patent Appeal will stand allowed in conformity with the view taken by the Acting Chief Justice in his judgment.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
Although we entertain very serious doubts about the correctness of the view taken by the Division Bench of the High Court regarding the applicability of Rule 23 3 to the instant case we do not feel called upon to examine the said question in depth or to pronounce upon it in this case in view of the conclusion arrived at by us on the merits of the case that the conclusions recorded by the Acting Chief Justice on the points that arose for decision in the Letters Patent Appeal cannot be legally sustained and that there was no justification for interference by the Division Bench with the judgment of the learned Single Judge dismissing the writ petition.
Admittedly the licence in respect of the Apsara Theatre was granted by the District Magistrate in the sole name of Ved Gupta and in all the relevant columns of the document of licence Ved Gupta has been shown as the licensee and there is no mention at all of the firm or its partners.
An application filed by Shri Krishan Kumar for a declaration that the licence was the property of the firm and for inclusion of his name and that of Todar Mal in the said licence as joint licensees was rejected by the District Magistrate by his order dated December 29 1977.
In the view of the preceding factual history of the case there was no scope in law for countenancing any contention being advanced on behalf of the firm that Ved Gupta had obtained the licence and had been holding the same for and on behalf of the partnership.
In proceedings to which the licensing authority was a party the High Court as well as this Court had upheld its order holding Ved Gupta to be the sole licensee rejecting the case put forward on behalf of the firm and the firm and its partners are bound by the said decision.
It is sufficient to state that these reasons do not appeal to us as correct or tenable.
 On a careful reading of this Section it will be seen that far from supporting the view taken by the learned Acting Chief Justice this provision goes to show that the holder of a licence may be a person different from the owner of the cinematograph or a partner of the cinematography.
In other words a licence is liable to be revoked not merely when the licensee is convicted of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of the Act but also in the event of conviction of such offence of any person belonging to the class of persons other 590 than the licensee enumerated therein.
In the light of the foregoing discussion we have no hesitation to hold that the view expressed by the learned Single Judge that Ved Gupta was a sole licensee and that the firm had no interest in the licence was perfectly correct and sound and the contrary view taken by the learned Chief Justice is erroneous.
In this connection it is relevant to refer to Rule 88v.
If Ved Gupta the licensee bad been expelled from the partnership the proper course to be adopted by the firm and its partners was to move the authorities for the grant of a licence and to run the Theatre only after obtaining such licence.
Any such operation by them would have been in clear and gross contravention of the law embodied if the relevant provisions of the Act and the Rules.
In the absence of any legal right or legitimate expectation being 593 available to the petitioners there was no obligation on the part of the District Magistrate to afford them a hearing before passing the impugned order.
As already observed by us the impugned order is not one suspending the licence issued in respect of the Theatre.
It this becomes manifest that all the grounds stated by the Division Bench of the High Court for upsetting the judgment of the learned Single Judge dismissing the writ petition are incorrect an unsustainable in law.
HLC Appeal allowed.
