By the said Judgment and decree the High Court of Andhra Pradesh had reversed the Judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge Masulipatam dated 19th November 1964 dismissing the suit of the plaintiffs respondents against the appellant.
Late Shri Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prashad was the husband of respondent No 1 and father of the respondents No 2 to 5 herein.
Cheque for Rs 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January 1961.
The Divisional Manager Masulipatam Branch denied liability on behalf of the appellant Corporation on 28th January 1961.
It was further stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
It was categorically stated that the cheques were not credited and adjusted towards the premium accounts.
During the trial before the learned Subordinate Judge five different issues were raised.
B 4 the review slip prepared by the Branch office Guntur and sent to the Divisional officer Masulipatam.
In his deposition he had stated that the Divisional Manager was the competent authority for accepting the proposal for Rs 50000.
Normally it took some time for the Divisional Manager to accept.
He further stated that the amount would be transferred into the first premium register after the proposal was accepted and the risk covered.
He had produced the account books namely deposit account book and the first premium account book of the Branch office at Guntur.
Shri Brahmandrao Ramiah Assistant Divisional Manager of the Life Insurance Corporation office at Madras was also examined as the second witness of the defendants.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
He further stated that according to the financial powers Standing order it was the Divisional Manager who was competent to accept a proposal for Rs 50000 exhibit B 13 is the copy of the Standing order.
In this connection we may refer exhibit B 14 which is the Life Insurance Corporation of India s Proposal Review Slip regarding proposal in the case of the deceased.
He stated that the endorsement marked as exhibit B 14 was initialled by him.
He further stated that the letters DM  were also written by him indicating that the papers should go to the Divisional Manager on exhibit B 4.
He reiterated that the order of acceptance would not be communicated to the party if all the formalities were not complied with this policy he stated was not accepted.
He held that as per the prospectus of Life Insurance Corporation of India the risk under the Corporation policy commenced on the date of receipt of the first premium in full or the date of acceptance whichever was later and the second instalment of the premium falls due on a date calculated from such date of commencement of risk.
The Trial Court therefore held that there was no concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation.
The Trial Court further noted that it was significant that the case set out in the plaint and the basis of the claim made in the notices sent to the Corporation was not that the proposal was as a matter of fact accepted by the Divisional Manager on the other hand claim was that it should be deemed to have been accepted.
The Trial Court further expressed the view that the other averments in the claim that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal were not established and even if such a representation was made that did not alter the position as under the rules the payment of the premium could never amount to the acceptance of the proposal if the proposal was not otherwise accepted.
In the result the suit filed by the respondents plaintiffs was dismissed with costs.
The High Court by its judgment dated 14th April 1970 held after considering the standing order exhibit B 13 and the various documents produced for the first time on record that there was acceptance of proposal and like 358 other contracts the contract of insurance was complete by offer and acceptance.
Relying on certain other documents which were called for for the first time by the High Court relating to certain other cases where only the Assistant Divisional Manager made similar endorsement the High Court came to the conclusion that there was a valid contract.
The High Court was of the view that the plea that Divisional Manager was the only authority to accept had not been categorically taken in the written statement filed on behalf of the Corporation.
In our opinion the High Court was in error in appreciating the facts and the evidence in this case.
The High Court in our opinions was also wrong in its view about the powers of the different authorities under Chapter III of the Standing order 1960 dealing with the financial powers.
He had stated that the purpose of review slip was to enable the Divisional Manager to asses the risk and take a decision.
See in this connection the statement of law in Corpus Juris Secundum Vol.
The test is not intention alone.
 Though in certain human relationships silence to a proposal might convey acceptance but in the case of insurance proposal silence does not denote consent and no binding contract arises until 360 the person to whom an offer is made says or does something to signify his acceptance.
See in this connection statement of law in MacGillivray  Parkington on Insurance Law Seventh Edition page 94 paragraph 215.
Having regard to the clear position in law about acceptance of insurance proposal and the evidence on record in this case we are therefore of the opinion that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that there was a concluded contract of insurance between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation and on that basis reversing the judgment and the decision of the learned Subordinate Judge.
In the facts and circumstances of the case there will be no order as to costs in this Court.
SR Appeal allowed.
