As a result of this firing one innocent namely Brahamdeo Mishra was killed.
910 It is the contention of the petitionerappellant that the order of preventive detention could only be justified against a person in detention if the detaining authority was satisfied that his release from detention was imminent and the order of detention was necessary for putting him back in jail.
He is likely to be enlarged on bail.
 According to the District Magistrate when police pressure to apprehend him became heavy the detenu opted to surrender before the Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate on 10th January 1986 in substantive case to frustrate the service of the detention order.
Grounds were all indicated.
All the documents which formed the basis of detention were supplied to the detenu.
His representation was duly considered and rejected.
Crl A 35386 with WP crl 2786 dt.
26986.
From the affidavit of the District Magistrate it does not appear that either the prospect of immediate release of the detenu or other factors which can justify the detention of a person in detention were properly considered in the light of the principles noted in the aforesaid decision and especially in the decisions in Rameshwar Shaw vs District Magistrate Burdwan  Anr  and Ramesh Yadav vs District Magistrate Etah and others though there was a statement to the effect that the petitioner was in jail and was likely to be enlarged on bail.
If a man is in custody and there is no imminent possibility of his being released the power of preventive detention should not be exercised.
A bald statement is merely an ipso dixit 912 of the officer.
Eternal vigilance on the part of the authority charged with both law and order and public order is the price which the democracy in this country extracts from the public officials in order to protect the fundamental freedoms of our citizens.
If that is the position then however disreputable the antecedents of a person might have been without consideration of all the aforesaid relevant factors the detenu could not have been put into preventive custody.
