1947 relating to Door No 3 Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint covered an area of 8700 sq.
After referring to the terms of the sale deed exhibit P 3 the superstructure constructed on the land was held to have been conveyed to the vendee under the sale deed dated 30 7 1953 and to have thus vested in the LIC.
An appeal by the tenant also failed but here again the above point was not taken.
 After reference to certain other decisions of the Court it was observed If a lessor brings a suit for eviction he is to prove the existence of a lease the relationship of lessor and lessee between himself and the defendant and the determination of the lease.
At that stage therefore the respondents could not have hoped to succeed even if their stand that they were the owners of the superstructure had been accepted.
A tenant shall not be evicted whether in execution of a decree or otherwise except in 560 accordance with the provisions of this section or sections 14 to 16 Provided that nothing contained in the said sec tions shall apply to a tenant whose landlord is the Govern ment Provided further that where the tenant denies the title of the landlord or claims right of permanent tenancy the Controller shall decide whether the denial or claim is bona fide and if he records a finding to that effect the landlord shall be entitled to sue for eviction of the tenant in a Civil Court and the Court may pass a decree for evic tion on any of the grounds mentioned in the said sections notwithstanding that the Court finds that such denial does not involve forfeiture of the lease or that the claim is unfounded.
All that the Rent Controller has to do is to satisfy himself that the person seeking eviction or fixation of fair rent is a landlord who has prima facie  the right to receive the rents of the property in question.
For deciding these issues he may have no doubt also to consider the oral and documentary evidence adduced by the parties.
 It arose under the Madras Estates Land Act 1 of 1908.
The trial Judge rejected the application holding that question of the applicability of the Act was res judicata since it had been finally decid ed by the High Court between the same parties in respect of the same land in the earlier proceeding for fixation of standard rent.
P Kondalamma and another AIR 1983 AP 2 19.
7 We may lastly refer to the decision of this Court in State of Tamil Nadu vs Ramalinga Samigal Madam and Ors 1985 4 SCC.
