Petition No 15001 of 1989.
K Ram Kumar SA Ahmed Tanweer Abdul and Mohan Pandey for the Respondents.
Seshiah married two wives.
One of the stipulation in the compromise deed which has admittedly been signed by the father and his two sons stipulates The petitioner has given to the second and third respondents the two sons an amount of Rs 1 lakh each and the second and third respondents have received the same In the face of such a statement in the compromise deed signed by the parties the second respondent had disputed the fact of payment and has in the meantime alienated about 81 acres of property which constitutes the subject matter of dispute to third parties.
Admittedly the transfers are pendente lite.
Mr Ram Kumar who appeared for the second respondent apart from maintaining that his client has not received the sum of Rs1 lakh has not been able to point out any justification as to why the compromise should not be acted upon and on the basis of it the litigation may not be disposed of.
Respondent No 2 and his counsel Mr Ram Kumar have accepted the fact that the parties have signed the compromise petition which contain terms which they had accepted and all parties have accepted the document of compromise to be genuine.
He sought to rely on certain decisions which on being referred to were found to be totally inapplicable to the facts of the case.
108 where the power of the Court under Order 23 rule 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure in the face of an objection of one of the parties to the compromise was considered.
Relying upon several authorities of different High Courts and one of the Privy Council referred to in the decision the High 542 Court held that once the Court was satisfied that there was a compromise it was for the Court to record the same and no option lay before the Court to act otherwise.
With a view to settling all equities between the parties and with the consent of Seshiah who is present in Court and counsel for the sons and after hearing the Advocate for the alienees we make the following directions 1.
In view of the fact that there was the allegation of payment of Rs 1 lakh to Sudarshan Gupta which we have not investigated and to meet the further allegation that some improvements have been made to the property which too we have not gone into we direct that the mesne profits shall be set off against the same.
In view of the aforesaid direction the security furnished in the Trial Court shall stand discharged and the alienees will have no liability to account for mesne profits.
543 4.
If necessary the Trial Court may appoint a Commissioner and take police help for executing this order and such cost shall ultimately be borne by the defaulting alienees but may initially be met by Seshiah.
