PN Duda N Safaya PK Choudhary and Ms Rekha Pandey for the Petitioners.
Kapil Sibal Additional Solicitor General Ms A Subha shini and K Swamy for the Respondents.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution the petitioners have questioned the con stitutional validity of Section 5 of the 12 of 1919 hereinafter called the Act .
It was the con tention of the petitioners before the authorities that their unit is manufacturing only those thinners which contain only liquid substance like as ecotone ethyl acetate SDS etc.
 According to them therefore the substance manufactured by them would not come within the amended Rules.
Before us also they had not placed any materi al to show that the finding was wrong or that the substance would not come within Rule 2x2.
In fact the learned counsel argued the petition on the basis that the petition ers are a manufacturer of thinner  within Rule 2x2 which has been declared as poison for purposes of the Act.
Originally the Act contained a schedule in which the list of substances declared as poisons were listed.
Later when Delhi Poisons Rules 1926 were made in exercise of the powers under the Act those list of substances were included in the list enumerated in Rule 2 thereof.
Presumption as to specified poisons Any substance specified as a poison in a rule made or notification issued under this Act shall be deemed to be a poison for the purpose of this Act.
 It was a law in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and as such continued in force.
Rules of 1926 were made in exercise of the rule making power under Section 3 of the Act.
Rules were amended in 1973 and duly notified as required by the Act.
It is those substances which the Govern ment consider its possession for sale or sale to be regulat ed in the interest of health and safety of the society.
Of course no comprehensive definition can be given to the word poison.
Under this term would fall anything calcu lated to destroy life.
Nothing is a poison unless regard be had to its administration.
A substance may be a deadly poison or a valuable medicine according to how and how much is taken.
If the resultant effect of administering into the system pro duces a violent morbid or fatal changes or which destroys living tissues the substance can be safely called poison.
It states that the State Government may by rule regulate the posses sion of any specified poison in any local area in which the use of such poison for the purpose of committing murder or mischief by poisoning cattle appears to it to be of such frequent occurrence as to render restriction on the posses sion thereof desirable.
Any substance which is used for purposes mentioned therein can definitely be declared as poison.
That is what the Government have done in this case.
In many cases deaths have also occurred due to drinking such substance.
If the Government thought in the circumstances that the posses sion or sale of the same is to be regulated it could not be said that they have no power to regulate.
It is in exercise of this power Rule 13 was amended by substituting the old Rule by the following Rule 13 1 All poisons kept for sale by any licence holder under these rules except those kept by a chemist druggist or compounder for the purchase of dispensing or compounding in compliance with the prescription of medical or veterinary practitioner shall be kept in a box almirah room or building according to the quantity maintained which shall be secured by lock and key and in which no sub stance shall be placed other than poisons possessed in accordance with a licence granted under the Act and each poison shall be kept within such box almirah room or building in a separate closed receptacle of glass metal or earthenware.
Every such box almirah room or building and every receptacle shall be marked with the word poison  in red charac ters both English and vernacular and in the case of receptacles containing separate poison  with the name of such poison .
ii All poisons  mentioned in clause x of rule 2 shall be kept in a room or building according to quantity maintained which shall be secured by lock and key in a separate receptacle of glass metal and earthenware etc.
Every such room building and every such receptacle shall be marked with the word poison  in red character both English and vernacular with the name of the poison .
It is a busi ness which can be termed even as inherently dangerous to health and safety of society in view of the rampant misuse and sale to the poor weak and helpless as an intoxicant.
A law in such circumstance can regulate the trade.
It is also not necessary that the same substance should be declared as poison for the entire country.
Rule nisi is discharged.
No order as to costs.
