Appeals by special leave from the judgment and orders dated August 5 1955 of the former Travancore Cochin High Court in Income tax Reference Appeals Nos 6 of 1953 and 21 of 1954.
At the instance of the Commissioner of Income tax the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin Is the aforesaid sum of Rs 79275 a loss of the assessee arising outside the Travancore State for purpose of the first proviso to section 321 of the Travancore Income tax Act   This question was slightly modified by the High Court 260 which after referring to several decided cases answered the question in favour of the assessee.
Indian Act.
Application of the Act 4 4 Head of income charge able to income tax 9 6 Business 13 10 Exemptions of a gene ral nature 18 14 Set off of loss in com puting aggregate in come 32 24 261 It is only necessary to set out section 321 of the Travancore Act and the proviso which correspond to section 241 and proviso i of the Indian Act and which are necessary for the decision of the appeals before us S321  Where any assessee sustains a loss of profits or gains in any year under any of the heads mentioned in Section 9 Section 6 he shall be entitled to have the amount of loss set off against this income profits or gains under any other head in that year Provided that where the loss sustained is a loss of profits or gains which would but for the loss have accrued or arisen within British India or in an Indian State and would under the provisions of clause e of sub section 2 of Section 18 Section 142c  have been exempted from tax such loss shall not be set off except against profits or gains accruing or arising within British India or in an Indian State and exempt from tax under the said provisions .
Sections in brackets are the corresponding sections of the Indian Act.
263 there were six heads of income chargeable to income tax.
Bhagwati J in Ram Narain Sons Ltd vs Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax 2 said  It is a cardinal rule of interpretation that a proviso to a particular provision of a statute only embraces the field which is covered by the main provision.
Vide also Corporation of The City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada 1.
41950 5 269 argument does not take note of the definition of total income total world income  and chargeability of total income under section 3 or the provisions of section 4 where in the case of a resident total income  includes income profits and gains accruing within or without I British India.
Appeals dismissed.
