he appointed his two sons rajendra and jogendra executors of ms will and provided that his second wife golap sundari and the two sons rajendra and jogendra should perform the seva of the deity and on their death their heirs and successors would be entitled to perform the seva.
on the 19th july 1899 rajendra made and published his last will and testament whereby he confirmed the dedication made by dwarka nath with regard to premises nos.
the said suit was compromised and on the 24th november 1910 a consent decree was passed whereby jogendra and golap sundari gave up their rights to the sevayatship and bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra became the sevaits of the idol a portion of the premises.
41 grey street was allotted to the branch of rajendra and the remaining portion was allotted to jogendra absolutely and in consideration of a sum of rs 6500 to be paid to the plaintiffs jogendra was declared entitled absolutely to the premises.
41 grey street allotted to the branch of rajendra was subsequently numbered 41 a grey street.
the arbitrator made his award dated the 12th october 1920 whereby he allotted premises No 41 a grey street exclusively to nagendra as his share of the family properties.
on the 23rd february 1927 nagendra executed a deed of settlement of the said premises by which he appointed his wife labanyalata and his wife 's brother samarendra nath mitter trustees to carry out the directions therein contained and in pursuance of the deed of settlement he gave up possession of the said premises in favour of the trustees.
on the 19th july 1948 the family idol of dwarka nath sree sree iswar sridhar jew by its next friend debabrata ghosh the son of nagendra filed the suit out of which the present appeal arises against the appellants as also against susilabala and the two sons of jogendra by her amongst others for a declaration that the premises nos.
41 a and 402 a grey street were its absolute properties and for possession thereof for a declaration that the consent decree dated the 24th november 1910 in suit No 969 of 1909 and the award dated the 12th october 1920 and the dealings made by the heirs of jogendra.
andor rajendra relating to the said premises or any of them purporting to affect its rights in the said premises were invalid and inoperative in law and not binding on it for an account of the dealings with the said premises for a scheme of management of the debutter properties and for its worship for discovery receiver injunction and costs.
written statements were filed by the appellants and by susilabala and the two sons of jogendra denying the claims of the idol and contending inter alia that there was no valid or absolute dedication of the suit properties i to the idol and that the said premises had been respectively acquired by them by adverse possession and that the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
No 41 a. grey street to be the absolute property of the idol and made the other declarations in favour of the idol as prayed for.
the idol was declared entitled to possession of the said premises with mesne profits for three years prior to the institution of the suit till delivery of possession but was ordered to pay as a condition for recovery of possession of the said premises a sum of rs 19000 to the appellants with interest thereon at the rate of 6 per cent.
the learned judge however dismissed the suit of the idol in regard to the premises.
No 402 a grey street as in his opinion sushilabala as executrix to her husband 's estate and her two sons had acquired title to the said premises by adverse possession and the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
the idol filed on the 20th november 1950 cross objections against the decree for rs 19000 and interest thereon as also the dismissal of the suit in regard to the premises.
the appeal and the cross objections came on for hearing before harries c j and section n banerjee j who delivered judgment on the 5th march 1951 dismissing the said appeal and allowing the cross objection in regard to rs 19000 filed by the idol against the appellants.
on the 22nd november 1951 the idol applied to the high court for leave to file cross objections against that part of the judgment and decree of the high court which dismissed its claims with regard to the premises no 402 a grey street.
by an order made by this court on the 24th may 1953 the petition of the idol for filing cross objections in this court was allowed to be treated as a petition for special leave to appeal against that part of the decree which was against it subject to any question as to limitation.
the petition for special leave was therefore allowed to be withdrawn and no objection now survives in regard to the decree passed by the trial court dismissing the idol 's claim to the premises No 402 a. the appeal is concerned only with the premises.
41 grey street made by dwarka nath under the terms of his will was a partial dedication and that his sons rajendra and jogendra and his widow golap sundari who were appointed sevayats of the idol were competent to deal with premises.
grey street and that his possession of the said premises thereafter became adverse which adverse possession continued for upwards of 12 years extinguishing the right of the idol to the said premises.
