the main controversy was whether the appellant had sublet the premises to defendant no 2bharat neon signs or whether he being a partner of the said firm had permitted the said firm to use the premises in question.
it is clear from the evidence on record that the partnership firm had undergone metamorphosis from time to time and again ever since the year 1960 the firm bharat neon signs first originated on 4th of october1960 as many as six persons were named in the partnership firm on or about 4th of october1960 and they had executed a deed of partnership on 13th of october1960 which is exhibit 114 on the record.
it may be mentioned that the partnership deed exhibit 114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
there is a third partnership deed exhibit 70 which showed that the deceased tenant girdharlal had died on 1st of february1961 and so by the remaining seven partners with same terms and conditions a new partnership deed being exhibit 70 was executed on 22nd.
the main question in issue in this appeal as well as before the high court in revision was whether there was a genuine partnership at the appellant was a partner.
a i r 1972 gujarat 6 1970 indlaw guj 68 thakkar j of the gujarat high court as the learned judge then was held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession.
there was an appeal before the court of small causes bombay and by judgment and order delivered by the court of small causes bombay on 18th of august1977it was held that the learned trial judge had erred in passing a decree for possession on the ground of subletting change of user and breach of terms of tenancy.
it was further alleged by the landlord that the appellant had unlawfully sublet the major part of the premises in question of both the suits to defendant nos 2 to 5 in the original suit and these defendants were running business in partnership for manufacturing of neon signs in the name of bharat neon signs.
for the purpose of the suit no 553 of 1969 with which the appeal is concerned it is relevant to state that the appellant had raised the contention that ahmedabad fine weaving works was not the tenant of the suit premies but the suit premises was tenanted by the father of the appellant girdharlal chimalal in 1938 and he was the original tenant of the premises and appellant subsequently joined the business of his father as a partner and the name of the partnership firm was ahmedabad fine weaving works.
he has stated further that the suit premises were to be used for business and he could use it for any business and he joined in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 somewhere in 1961 to prepare neon signs and the defendants nos 2 to 5 were his partners and doing business in the suit premises.
it may be mentioned that by the time the revision petition came to be decided by the high court the suit had been decreed in his favour directing a dissolution of the said partnership and directing taking of the accounts.
the appellate court so far as the material for the present appeal is concerned held that there was no subletting and there was only carrying on of the business in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 in the name of bharat neon signs.
therefore the first question that had to be decided by the appellate court being the court of small causes bombay and if a revision lay before the high court was whether there was any genuine partnership.
the court of small causes came to the conclusion on an analysis of the evidence before it and the terms of the three partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore that there was a genuine partnership in law which was acted upon.
the first question therefore is whether the high court could do so in the facts of this case and secondly whether the high court was right in so doing.
whether there was a partnership or not may in certain cases be a mixed question of law and fact in the sense that whether the ingredients of partnership as embodied in the law of partnership were there in a particular case or not must be judged in the light of the principles applicable to partnership.
that has to be found in section 4 of the indian partnership act1932it says partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all emphasis supplied.
the partnership deeds were there entitling the petitioner to share in the partnership.
the clause of the partnership deed provided that there should be a fixed percentage of profit to be given to the partner appellant no 1 the appellant was not to share the losses.
the appellate court had considered the partnership deeds.
one point was emphasised by mr mehta learned counsel appearing for the respondents that the original first partnership deed did not mention the appellant or his father as a partner.
it was in the second partnership deed that the appellant and his father joined the firm.
therefore it was emphasised that there was a gap of time when there was user by the partnership firm of the premises in question when the appellant was not a member of the firm.
it was emphasised that this aspect was not considered by the court of small causes and the high court therefore was justified in interfering with the findings of the court of small causes.
it is evident from the sales tax registration and other registration certificates and licences under the shops and establishments act that the partnership was registered in the name of the appellant and the appellant was also indicated as a partner.
but the question is from the three deeds itself which were examined in detail by the court of small causes and which were re examined by the high court could it be said unequivocally that there was no partnership.
the deeds gave the appellant the right to share the profits and made him agent for certain limited purposes of the firm and there was evidence that the partnership deeds were acted upon.
the first partnership deed which is exhibit 114 is dated 13th october1960 it recited that the partnership firm should be presently started at ahmedabad and the same should later be started in another city.
exhibit 69 at page 136 of volume ii of the paper book is a partnership deed wherein girdharlal the father of the appellant no 1 and the appellant no 1 joined as partners.
