the state of manipur is in appeal before us questioning the judgment and order dated 29 07 2005 passed by a division bench of the guwahati high court in wa nos 61787995 and 100 of 1999 upholding a judgment and order of a learned single judge of the said court dated 19 02 1999 in c r nos 32410125681022 and 1023 of 1998.
the state of manipur had not framed any recruitment rules for appointment inter alia in the revenue department and in particular the field staff thereof.
the commissioner allegedly made certain appointments in the posts of mandols process servers and zilladars which was not within the knowledge of the state.
appointments were made on 11 09 199722 11 1997 and 5 12 1997 a sample copy of the offer of appointment reads as under no 11497 com rev on the recommendation of d p c and under the directives issued by the honourable gauhati high court the following persons are hereby appointed as mandols on temporary basis in the scale of pay of rs 950 20 1150 eb 25 1400 per month with usual allowances against thereto existing clear vacancies of mandals under revenue department from the date of their joining on duties.
an inquiry was therefore made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
shri tayeng by a uo note dated 12 01 1998 denied to have made such an appointment stating confidential u o no 21593 com r pt.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
the honourable minister revenuei am to say that i am not all aware of such appointments made by me except for 3 lambus who were kept in panel for appointment and accordingly the s o revenue.
a r khan secretary revenue has made many appointments of mandols process servers zilladars in the recent months against which i have been complaining that the secretary revenue has no power or authority to make any appointments of field staff as per rules provided under m l r act1960 in this regard i have apprised the matter to the honourable minister revenue already and also informed the chief secretary manipur explaining that the secretary revenue can not make such appointments of field staffs even if he wanted to do so all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the honourable minister revenue his action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
i still deny that i have made any appointment of field staffs of revenue department during the recent months.
in view of the aforementioned stand taken by the said shri tayeng the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents were cancelled by an order dated 17 02 1998 a corrigendum thereto was however issued on 21 02 1998 stating no 21593 comrev.
the respondents herein filed writ petitions before the high court on 4 06 1998 questioning the said order of cancellation of their appointments.
the said shri tayeng retired on 28 02 1998 despite the fact that he in his uo note dated 12 02 1998 addressed to the minister of revenue denied to have made any appointment when approached by the writ petitioners respondents he affirmed in their support an affidavit in the high court stating 3 that while i was functioning as revenue commissioner manipur matters relating to appointment on the recommendation of the d p c transfer etc were put up to me in files and i used to pass order on the basis of facts presented to me in file.
the writ petitions filed by the respondents herein were allowed by a learned single judge of the high court opining i the principles of natural justice having not been complied with the impugned orders can not be sustained.
whereas in the impugned order the appointments of the respondents were said to have been passed without the knowledge of the administrative department revenue department in the counter affidavit it was stated that no records were available in respect thereof and thus the said plea being inconsistent with each other the orders of cancellation of appointment would be bad in law in the light of a decision of this court in mohinder singh gill and anr v. chief election commissioner delhi and ors air 1978 sc 851 1977 indlaw sc 53.
however it was observed however it is further made clear that the state respondent are at liberty to initiate or take up any appropriate legal action in the matter pertaining to their alleged fake appointments in their respective posts in accordance with law and pass necessary order after affording reasonable opportunity of being heard to them.
so far as the matter relating to civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005 is concerned it was directed that as the appointment of the respondents were made for a period of six months the employees were only entitled to the salary for the said period.
it was argued that the question as to whether appointments were made without the knowledge of the department or for that matter whether any record was available there for was of not much significance as in effect and substance they lead to the same inference and in that view of the matter the decision of this court in mohinder singh gill 1977 indlaw sc 53 supra was not attracted.
s b sanyal learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would submit that the question as to whether the appointments of the respondents were nullities or not having not been raised before the high court this court should not permit the appellants to raise the said contention at this stage.
the state while offering appointments having regard to the constitutional scheme adumbrated in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india must comply with its constitutional duty subject to just and proper exceptions to give an opportunity of being considered for appointment to all persons eligible there for.
the posts of field staffs of the revenue department of the state of manipur were thus required to be filled up having regard to the said constitutional scheme.
we would proceed on the assumption that the state had not framed any recruitment rules in terms of the proviso appended to art 309 of the constitution of india but the same by itself would not clothe the commissioner of revenue to make recruitments in violation of the provisions contained in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents herein were cancelled inter alia on the premise that the same had been done without the knowledge of the revenue department of the state.
as noticed hereinbefore an inquiry had been made wherein the said shri tayeng the then commissioner of revenue stated that no such appointment had been made to his knowledge.
if the offers of appointments issued in favour of the respondents herein were forged documents the state could not have been compelled to pay salaries to them from the state exchequer.
with a view to establish their legal rights to enable the high court to issue a writ of mandamus the respondents were obligated to establish that the appointments had been made upon following the constitutional mandate adumbrated in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
