devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.
chandra prakash accused no 2 has filed criminal appeal no 589 of 2014 the appellant smt.
shashi tripathi accused no 1 has filed criminal appeal arising out of special leave petition criminal no 3737 of 2014.
pw 1 dr. sharda prasad tripathi is the husband of accused shashi tripathi.
on 25 11 2003when pw 1 dr. sharda prasad tripathi came home from his clinic found that his daughter in law bhavna tripathi has been murdered.
after registration of the crime inquest was conducted over the dead body of bhavna on 26 11 2003 post mortem was conducted by dr naresh tiwari and dr m deodhar who gave their report which is marked as exhibit p18 spot map was prepared by the inquiry officer io bloodstained cloth of accused shashi tripathi was taken into possession along with broken bangles bloodstained cement mortar and plain cement mortar were also taken into possession.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
bhavna was married to her step son jitendra kumar in july2003 shashi tripathi used to be annoyed with bhavna tripathi on account of some domestic dispute.
the injuries found on person of the deceased were as follows external injuries 1 incised wound on left scapular region of size 3 cm x 1 cm 2 incised wound on left scapular region of size 4 cm x 1 cm.
one incised wound on left auxiliary region on the posterior auxiliary region of size 3 cm x 2 cm x 3 cm.
3 cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3 cm.
x 3 cm with punctured wound 6 incised wound over right costal region of size 3 cm x 2 cm x 1 cm.
7 incised wound on right supra mammary region near middle of size 4 cm x 1 cm x 1 cm 8 incised wound on right supra mammary region lateral aspect of size 3 cm x 1 cm x 1 cm 9 incised wound on radial aspect of left forearm near wrist joint of size 2.
cm x cm x cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
x 1 cm x 1 cm 12 incised wound on left hand dorsal aspect on 2 nd and 3rd metacarpal region of size 2 cm.
x 1 cm 13 incised wound on ulna region of left hand on lower 13rd region of size 1 cm.
x cm x 1 cm and 14 incised wound over left side of neck on anterior triangle of size 2 cm.
internal injuries brain membrane pale lungs trachea pale punctured wound on right and left lungs of size 2 cm x 1 cm2 cm and 1 cm.
x 3 cm lobe was cut and there was 3 cm punctured wound.
incised wound was also present on the right lobe of size 3 cm x 13 cm x 3 cm.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
we have carefully examined the manner in which the identification parade was conducted and the manner in which the boy anil kumar pw 21 identified the accused in court and we have no reason to doubt the identification of the accused which assumes importance in this case since the boy did not know the accused before the incident.
he deposed before the court that shashi didi accused brought him to village jevra from bilaspur.
this deposition clearly implicates accused nos 12 and 4 the picture that emerges is that shashi tripathi caused bhavna to be killed and for this purpose engaged chandra prakash accused no 2 and raju.
the prosecution has found it difficult to pinpoint the motive but shashi tripathi 's husband dr sharda prasad tripathi pw 1 deposed before the court that she tried to create a hindrance in the marriage of his son jitendra since she wanted her daughter abhilasha to marry him however he went ahead with the marriage of jitendra to bhavna whereupon shashi tripathi remained silent.
the incident occurred within the four walls of the house of the accused shashi tripathi and the only witness was the boy anil.
pw 21 his statement that the accused chandra prakash attacked the deceased is corroborated by the recovery of knife from chandra prakash.
the learned counsel for the appellants forcefully attacked the conviction of the other accused viz mahesh chandra prakash and devendra kumar who admittedly were not known to the child witness anil kumar.
it was submitted that the test identification parade were delayed and the identification of these accused by the witness in court was not reliable.
the accused devendra kumar was arrested on 22 12 2003 and his identification parade was conducted on 26 12 2003 within four days there is no evidence on record to show that the child witness had an opportunity to see and study the features of the accused between their arrest and test identification parade to enable a tutored identification.
state of u p 1970 2 scc 128 1970 indlaw sc 136 where this court made the following observations 7 now facts which establish the identity of an accused person are relevant u s 9 of the indian evidence act.
the evidence of mere identification of the accused person at the trial for the first time is from its very nature inherently of a weak character.
the evidence in order to carry conviction should ordinarily clarify as to how and under what circumstances he came to pick out the particular accused person and the details of the part which the accused played in the crime in question with reasonable particularity.
it is accordingly considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witnesses in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding.
generally speaking the magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
he became the unfortunate witness of a gruesome murder and fearlessly identified the accused in court.
in such a situation it is considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witness in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them in the form of earlier identification proceeding as observed by this court in budhsen 's case 1970 indlaw sc 136 supra.
