municipal corporation of delhi aggrieved against the judgment and final order dated 26 03 2004 passed by the high court delhi in criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 by which order the high court gave the benefit of probation under section 4 of the probation of offenders act1958.
aggrieved by that order the second respondent accused filed an appeal before the sessions court delhi.
against the judgment and order dated 23 3 2004the accused filed criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 before the high court delhi.
at the time of arguments the advocate for the accused submitted before the high court that the accused did not wish to challenge the conviction on merits and stated it a fit case of accused to be admitted to the benefit of pob act on the ground that the accused faced trial for 12 years in the lower courts and remained in jail for three days.
besides that he has already undergone some period in custody.
the high court also observed that there is no allegation that the petitioner accused is a previous convict and it further held that the accused deserved the benefit of probation under section 4 of the pob act and while maintaining the conviction of the respondent accused the sentence of imprisonment and fine as awarded to him was set aside.
learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the high court before extending the benefit of pob act to the accused did not call for a report from the authorities to check upon the conduct of the accused respondent as per section 42 of the pob act and that the appellant mcd was also not given time to file their counter affidavit on the question of sentence.
in the said case the accused respondent was convicted under section 332461 of the dmc act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with a fine of rs 5000.
learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant further submitted that there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of pob act particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in delhi despite strict direction of the municipal authorities and courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized constructions.
it was also contended that before making any order under section 41 of the pob act the court shall take into consideration the report if any of the probation officer concerned in relation to the case which the high court has miserably failed to do so.
learned senior counsel appearing for the contesting respondent submitted that the order of the high court does not require any reconsideration by this court and that the high court while extending the benefit of pob act had clearly recorded in the order that the counsel for the state of delhi is not averse to the grant of benefit of probation to the answering respondent and therefore the requirement under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the state and that the high court took into consideration the fact that the answering respondent has faced the agony of trial for over 12 years and has also undergone some period in custody and while maintaining the conviction of the answering respondent the benefit of probation was extended to him.
it was therefore submitted that the sentence imprisonment awarded by the metropolitan magistrate has been suspended under section 389 of the criminal procedure code by the court of additional sessions judge delhi in view of the pendency of the appeal against the order of conviction is a continuation of proceedings and therefore there is no conviction against the answering respondent so long as the same is not decided by the court of sessions.
it was also submitted that the requirement of calling of a report from the probationer officer under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the counsel for the state of delhi and that the counsel for the mcd also did not raise any objection before the high court.
concluding his arguments he submitted that the respondent has been released after compliance of the order passed by the high court by furnishing the bone of good conduct and security to the satisfaction of the additional court of metropolitan magistrate delhi and there is no report of any misconduct or breach of the bond of good conduct by the answering respondent since the date of the order of the high court therefore the order of the high court is not liable to be interfered with.
2 whether.
before proceeding further it would be beneficial to reproduce section 4 of the probation of offenders act1958 which is extracted below for ready reference.
1 when any person is found guilty of having committed an offence not punishable with death or imprisonment for life and the court by which the person is found guilty is of opinion that having record to the circumstances of the case including the nature of the offence and the character of the offender it is expedient to release him on probation of good conduct then notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force the court may instead of sentencing him at once to any punishment direct that he be released on his entering into a bond with or without sureties to appear and receive sentence when called upon during such period not exceeding three years as the court may direct and in the meantime to keep the peace and be of good behaviour provided that the court shall no direct such release of an offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety if any has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
2 before making any order under sub section.
1the court shall take into consideration the report if any of the probation officer concerned in relation to the case.
considering the above facts and circumstances and gravity of the nature of the offence i e extent of construction raised by the accused for commercial as 11 shops at ground floor and 11 shops at first floor i am not inclined to release the accused convict on probation.
hence request declined.
fine deposited.
convict remained for sentence.
a person whose case is based on falsehood can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
a litigant who approaches the court is bound to produce all documents which are relevant to the litigation.
1979 crl.
lj noc 20 mad.
before deciding to act under s 4 1it is mandatory on the part of the court to call for a report from the probation officer and if such a report is received it is mandatory on the part of the court to consider the report.
appeal allowed.
