this appeal by special leave has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of bombay high court aurangabad bench by which the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed and their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc and sentence of 7 years ri imposed thereunder by the learned sessions judge aurangabad was affirmed.
and she was married to appellant No 1.
appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
the case of the prosecution futher is that in the evening of 15 september 1991 a person came from village palshi on a motorcycle and informed pw 1 tukaram that bhimabai was unwell.
on the basis of the said accidental death report pw 6 sandeepan kamble police sub inspector visited the house of the accused held inquest on the dead body of bhimabai and thereafter sent the same for post mortem examination.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
the specific case of the prosecution is that bhimabai ended her life by consuming poison because of harassment caused to her by the appellants for or in connection with demand of dowry.
1 tukaram father of the deceased has given details of the prosecution version of the incident in his statement in court.
he has deposed that in the marriage he had given rs 20000 as dowry.
bhimabai had complained to him that she was not being given proper food clothings and even footwear and occasionally the appellant No 1 used to beat her.
the witness has further deposed that on the date of incident a man came from village palshi on motorcycle and informed that he should immediately go there as bhimabai was not well.
he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which was smelling of thimet insecticide.
he has also deposed that it was after about 1 12 years of marriage that bhimabai first complained to him about the harassment being caused to her.
he has admitted that it was appellant No 1 who had sent a person on motorcycle who had given information regarding bhimabai being unwell and that both the appellants were present at the time of her funeral.
he has deposed that on an earlier occasion he had gone along with pw 1 and some others to the house of appellant no 1 to persuade him not to harass bhimabai and to treat her well.
he also admitted that he had not gone to attend that funeral of bhimabai.
and that was the cause.
3 sandu police patil of village palshi has deposed that at about 4 20 p m on 15 september 1991 narayan who is uncle of appellant no 1 appasaheb informed him that the wife of appasaheb had expired.
in his examination in chief pw 1 has said that whenever his daughter came to her parental home she used to complain that she was being subjected to harassment by the appellants on account of some domestic reasons and further that her husband appellant no 1 had told her that while coming back from her parental home she should bring rs 1000 1200 for expenses and for manure as he had no sufficient money.
pw 5 sumanbai has deposed that bhimabai was receiving ill treatment as a result of domestic cause and to a specific question put by the court as to what she meant by domestic cause she gave a reply that there was a demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
p c which was recorded on the very next day of the death of bhimabai this witness did not state that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
accepting the statements of father and mother on their face value that utmost which can be held is that the appellant no 1 had asked his wife bhimabai to bring money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
definition of dowry in this act dowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parent of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dowry or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
being a penal provision it has to be strictly construed.
dowry is a fairly well known social custom or practice in india.
a demand for money on account of some financial stringency or for meeting some urgent domestic expenses of for purchasing manure can not be termed as a demand for dowry as the said word is normally understood.
as already stated the appellants were also charged under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but were acquitted of the said charges by the learned sessions judge which order has attained finality for the reason that the state did not prefer appeal against the same.
he shall be released forthwith unless wanted in some other case.
appeal allowed.
