act1953 bombay act.
No v of 1879 with a view to determining whether the jagirdar had any rights to mines or mineral products in his jagir granted or recognised under any contract grant or law for the time being in force or by custom or usage is competent.
it appears that for the purpose of implementing the provisions of the act the competent authority collector of district sabarkantha held an inquiry into the question whether the respondent s jigir was proprietary involving any right or interest in the soil or non proprietary involving mere assignment of land revenue or rent due to government under s 2 4 i of the act and having regard to the documentary and other evidence led before it the competent authority by its order dated september 81959held that the daljitgarh jagir of the respondent was a proprietary jagir.
it further appears that pursuant to an order dated november 241959passed by the mamlatdar idar an entry was made on june 181963in the relevant revenue records village form no 6 of one of the villages kapoda comprised in the jagir to the effect that the respondent s right to take out gravel and stones was recognised but the right relating to excavation of mica had been reserved and retained by the government this entry was only certified on march 301965 according to the respondent since the entries made in the revenue records in respect of his rights to mines and mineral products were not sufficient and proper and though the mamlatdar s order dated november 241959 was in respect of two villages namely kapoda and isarwada the relevant entry in respect of greval and stones had been made only in regard to village kapoda he by his application dated october 111968requested the collector sabarkantha to issue necessary orders to the mamlatdar idar to make appropriate entries regarding his rights in the minerals in village isarwada.
he urged that it would be for the collector acting under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code to decide the latter question in an inquiry initiated under that provision.
according to learned counsel the mere circumstance that the respondent s jagir was found under s 24.
he urged that having regard to such determination that was made by the competent authority under s 2 4 i of the act it would be clear that a further inquiry into the respondent s rights to mines and mineral products particularly gravel and stones under s 372 of the code would be misconceived and incompetent.
he pointed out that presumably pursuant to this determination the mamlatdar idar had passed an order on november 241959that the respondent s right to stones and gravel in the two villages of kapoda and isarwada though not to mica had been recognised by the government and accordingly the necessary entry pertaining to respondent s right to stones and gravel had been made in the relevant revenue records at least in the case of village kapoda and had been duly certified.
he further urged that the two letters addressed by the respondent one to the collector on october 111968 and the other to the mamlatdar on october 41971merely contained a request to make appropriate entries in the revenue records based on the mamlatdar s order dated november 241959 and therefore the collector could not pronounce upon those letters as containing a claim put forward by the respondent for the first time to mines and mineral products in the said jagir villages to initiate an inquiry under s 372 of the bombay land revenue de.
according to the learned counsel for the respondent unless a claim to property or rights over property was made either by the state against any person or by any person against the state there could be no occasion for the collector to held an inquiry contemplated by s 372 of the code.
he therefore urged that the high court was right in quashing the collector s order dated february 231973.
having regard to the rival contentions of the parties summarised above it will appear clear that really two questions one general and the other specific in the light of the facts obtaining in the instant case arise for our determination in this appeal.
the general question is whether once the competent authority under s 2 4 i of the act declares that the particular jagir is a proprietary one a further inquiry under s 372 of the land revenue code with a view to determining whether the jagirdar had rights to mines and mineral products in such jagir subsisting on the appointed date is competent.
ithe further inquiry initiated by the collector under s 372 was misconceived and uncalled for.
dealing with the first question which is of a general character it is clear that the answer thereto depends upon the true scope and ambit of the inquiry under s 2 4 i of the act and to determine the same it will be necessary to consider the scheme and object of the act and in particular the purpose of the said inquiry.
s 2 contains the definitions of various expressions some of which are material s 2vi defines the expression jagir as meaning the grant by or recognition as a grant by the ruling authority for the time being before the merger of a village whether such grant is of the soil or an assignment of land revenue or both there is also an inclusive part of definition with which we are not concerned.
if any question arises.
i whether a jagir is proprietary or non proprietary iiwhether any land is ghatked or jiwai or iiiwhetherany person is a permanent holder.
as a consequence of the abolition of jagirs under s 3 all jagir villages became unalienated villages and therefore under s 4 it has been provided that all jagir villages shall be liable to the payment of land revenue in accordance with the provisions of the code and the rules made thereunder and the provisions of the code and the rules relating to unalienated land shall apply to such villages.
grant or law for the time being in force or by custom or usage.
in other words the competent authority holding an inquiry under s 24 i can come to the conclusion that a particular jagir is proprietary if it finds that the jagirdar under the terms of a grant or agreement is entitled to some rights or interest in the soil other than mines or mineral products.
in other words our answer to the general question raised above would be that even after the competent authority has declared a particular jagir to be a proprietary one under s 24.
besides while determining the proprietary nature of the grant under s 241 of the act the competent authority had on evidence led before it alluded among others to the respondent s right to excavate and sell gravel and stones and enjoyment thereof by the respondent.
if and when he prefers a claim to this particular mineral productfrom other villages comprised in his grant or to the other mines ormineral products in all the villages including isarwada and kapodaan inquiry into such claim under s 372 could be held but even the decision at such inquiry would be subject to adjudication by a civil court in appropriate proceedings for the final pronouncement on such rights must as is clear from the scheme of the bombay land revenue code always rest with the civil court.
appeal dismissed.
