it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
in this group of cases we are faced with a different problem of alleged exploitation by big manufacturers of bulk drugs.
by way of illustration we may straightaway mention a glaring instance of such high pricing which was brought to our notice at the very commencement of the hearing.
barlagan ketone a bulk drug was not treated as an essential bulk drug under the drugs prices control.
order came into force the distinction between essential and non essential bulk drugs was abolished and a maximum price had to be fixed for barlagan ketone also like other bulk drugs.
for the moment ignoring the price fixed by the government we see that the price of rs 24735 per kg.
at which the manufacturer was previously selling the drug and at which he continues to market the drug to this day because of the quashing of the order fixing the price by the high court is so unconsciously high even compared with the price claimed by himself that it appears to justify the charge that some manufacturers do indulge in profiteering.
profiteering by itself is evil.
profiteering in the scarce resources of the community much needed life sustaining food stuffs and lifesaving drugs is diabolic.
it is a menance which had to be lettered and curbed.
one of the principal objectives of the essential commodities act 1955 is precisely that.
section 31 of the essential commodities act enables the central government if it is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair price to provide for regulating or prohibiting by order the production supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.
in particular section 32c enables the central government to make an order providing for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold.
it is in pursuance of the powers granted to the central government by the essential commodities act that first the drugs prices control.
order 1970 and later the drugs prices control.
order 1979 were made.
order 1979 the central government issued notifications fixing the maximum prices at which various indigenously manufactured bulk drugs may be sold by the manufacturers.
since prices of formulations are primarily dependent on prices of buli drugs the notifications fixing the retail prices of formulations were also quashed.
nevertheless the high court gave detailed directions regarding the manner of disposal of the review petitions by the high court.
the case for the union of india was presented to us ably by shri g ramaswami the learned additional solicitor general and the manufacturers were represented equally ably by shri anil diwan.
before we turn to the terms of the drugs prices control.
order 1979 we would like to make certain general observations and explain the legal position in regard to them.
but we do not totally deny ourselves the jurisdiction to enquire into the question in appropriate proceedings whether relevant considerations have gone in and irrelevant considerations kept out of the determination of the price.
for example if the legislature has decreed the pricing policy and prescribed the factors which should guide the determination of the price we will if necessary enquire into the question whether the policy and the factors are present to the mind of the authorities specifying the price.
but our examination will stop there.
the assembling of the raw materials and the mechanics of price fixation are the concern of the executive and we leave it to them.
the court will of course examine if there is any hostile discrimination.
that is a different cup of tea altogether.
in the case of parliamentary legislation the proposition is self evident.
in the case of subordinate legislation it may happen that parliament may itself provide for a notice and for a hearing there are several instances of the legislature requiring the subordinate legislating authority to give public notice and a public hearing before say for example levying a municipal rate  in which case the substantial non observance of the statutorily prescribed mode of observing natural justice may have the effect of invalidating the subordinate legislation.
but where the legislature has not chosen to provide for any notice or hearing no one can insist upon it and it will not be permissible to read natural justice into such legislative activity.
occasionally the legislature directs the subordinate legislating body to make such enquiry as it thinks fit before making the subordinate legislation.
in such a situation while such enquiry by the subordinate legislating body as it deems fit is a condition precedent to the subordinate legislation the nature and the extent of the enquiry is in the discretion of the subordinate legislating body and the subordinate legislation is not open to question on the ground that the enquiry was not as full as it might have been.
it is true that with the proliferation of delegated legislation there is a tendency for the line between legislation and administration to vanish into an illusion.
a legislative act is the creation and promulgation of a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases an administrative act is the making and issue of a specific direction or the application of a general rule to a particular case in accordance with the requirements of policy.
but this is only a bread distinction not necessarily always true.
that is not ruled out.
adjudication is determinative of the past and the present while legislation is indicative of the future.
a price fixation measure does not concern itself with the interests of an individual manufacturer or producer.
it is generally in relation to a particular commodity or class of commodities or transactions.
it is conceived in the interests of the general consumer public.
such situations may arise when the owner of property or goods is compelled to sell his property or goods to the government or its nominee and the price to be paid is directed by the legislature to be determined according to the statutory guidelines laid down by it.
in such situations the determination of price may acquire aquasi judicial character.
otherwise price fixation is generally a legislative activity.
the cases to which we shall now refer will perhaps elucidate what we have tried unfelicitously to express.
1 scc 468 1973 indlaw sc 291 a notification fixing the ex factory price of certain counts of cotton yarn was questioned on the ground that the price had been arbitrarily fixed.
2 scr 526 1971 indlaw sc 291 a constitution bench of the court observed that the dominant object and the purpose of the legislation was the equitable distribution and availability of commodities at fair price and if profit and the producer s return were to be kept in the forefront it would result in losing sight of the object and the purpose of the legislation.
if the prices of yarn or cloth were fixed in such a way to enable the manufacturer or producer recover his cost of production and secure a reasonable margin of profit no aspect of infringement of any fundamental right could be said to arise.
it was to be remembered that the mere fact that some of those were engaged in the industry trade or commerce allegedthat they were incurring loss would not render the law stipulating the price unreasonable.
it was observed the control of prices may have effect either on maintaining or increasing supply of commodity or securing equitable distribution and availability at fair prices.
the controlled price has to retain this equilibrium in the supply and demand of the commodity.
the cost of production a reasonable return to the producer of the commodity are to be taken into account.
in fixing the prices a price line has to be held in order to give preference or pre dominant consideration to the interest of the consumer or the general public over that of the producers in respect of essential commodities.
the aspect of ensuring availability of the essential commodities to the consumer equitably and at fair price is the most important consideration.
if price increases it becomes injurious to the consumer.
in such a case if an escalation in price is contemplated at intervals the object of controlled price may be stultified.
the controlled price will enable both the consumer and the producer to tide over difficulties.
the cases of panipat sugar mills and anakapalle co operative agricultural society were distinguished on the ground that they were governed by sub section 3c of sec.
3 of the essential commodities act and therefore had no relevance to the case before the constitution bench.
the case of premier automobiles was distinguished on the ground that the decision was rendered by invitation and on the agreement of the parties irrespective of technical and legal questions.
the court quoted with approval a passage from secretary of agriculture v central reig refining company 330 us 604 stating suffice it to say that since congress fixed the quotas on a historical basis it is not for this court to reweigh the relevant factors and per chance substitute its notion of expediency and fairness for that of congress.
nevertheless the criterion adopted must be reasonable.
in prag ice oil mills v union of india 1978 3 scc 459 1978 indlaw sc 472 a constitution bench of seven judges of this court had to consider the validity of the mustard oil price control.
chandrachud j speaking for the court approved the observation of beg cj.
in saraswati industrial syndicate.
panipat sugar and anakappalle society were again referred to and it was pointed out that those cases turned on the language of section 33c of the essential commodities act.
premier automobiles was considered and it was affirmed that the judgment in that case could not be treated as precedent and could not afford any appreciable assistance in the decision of price fixation cases as it proceeded partly on agreement between the parties and partly on concessions made at the bar.
he also reaffirmed the proposition that price fixation was in the nature of a legislative measure and could not give rise to a complaint that natural justice was not observed.
he indicated the indicia which led him to the conclusion that price fixation was a legislative measure.
he observed we think that unless by the terms of a particular statute or order price fixation is made a quasi judicial function for specified purposes or cases it is really legislative in character in the type of control order which is now before us because it satisfies the tests of legislation.
a legislative measure does not concern itself with the facts of an individual case.
it is meant to lay down a general rule applicable to all persons or objects or transactions of a particular kind or class.
in the case before us the control order applies to sales of mustard oil anywhere in india by any dealer.
its validity does not depend on the observance of any procedure to be complied with or particular types of evidence to be taken on any specified matters as conditions precedent to its validity.
in laxmi khandsari v state of uttar pradesh 1981 2 scc 600 1981 indlaw sc 558 it was held that the sugar cane control order 1966 was a legislative measure and therefore rules of natural justice were not attracted.
all er 609.
in sarkari sasta anaj vikreta sangh v state of madhya pradesh 1981 4 scc 471 1981 indlaw sc 607 it was pointed out that the amendment of the madhya pradesh food stuffs distribution control order was a legislative function and there was therefore no question of affording an opportunity to those who were to be affected by it.
in welcom hotel v state of andhra pradesh 1983 4 scc 575 1983 indlaw sc 128 the observations of chandrachud cj.
in prag ice and oil mills were quoted with approval in connection with the fixation of prices of food stuffs served in restaurants.
in tharoe mal v puranchand 1978 1 scc 102 1977 indlaw sc 122 one of the questions was regarding the nature of the hearing to be given before imposing municipal taxes under the uttar pradesh municipalities act 1916.
it was held.
it is an order for a compulsory sale.
section 33c provides for the ascertainment of the price.
it is further prescribed that different prices may be determined from time to time for different areas or for different factories or for different kinds of sugar.
if the function is treated as legislative in nature there is no right to notice and hearing unless a statute expressly requires them.
that is its purpose and end.
an adjudication on the other hand applies to specific individuals or situations.
order 1979 was made.
it was as follows.
on the basis of cost analysis in respect of those units maximum prices may be prescribed and all other units may be free to fix their prices within this ceiling.
paragraph 2a of the drugs.
formulation is defined as follows formulation means a medicine processed out of or containing one or more bulk drugs or drugs with or without the use of any pharmaceutical aids for internal or external use for or in the diagnosis treatment mitigation or prevention of disease in human beings or animals but shall not include i any bona fide ayurvedic including sidha or unani tibb systems of medicine ii any medicine included in the homoeopathic system of medicine 865 iii any substance to which the provisions of the drugs and cosmetics act 1940 xxiii of 1940 do not apply.
order was abandoned in the 1979 order.
bulk drugs were however broadly divided into indigenously manufactured bulk drugs imported bulk drugs and hulk drugs which were both manufactured indigenously as also imported.
free reserve itself is separately defined.
paragraph 4 is thus in the nature of an exception to paragraph 3.
retention price by its very definition pertains to individual manufacturers.
paragraph 10 prescribes a formula for calculating the retail price of formulations.
m u means make up referred to in para.
e d means excise duty.
paragraph 11 explains what mark up means.
paragraph 12 empowers the government to fix leader prices of formulations of categories.
i and ii specified in the third schedule.
paragraph 14 contains some general provisions regardingprices of formulations.
paragraph 15 empowers the government to revise prices of formulations.
bulk drugs constituting categories.
i and ii are enumerated in the first schedule.
bulk drugs constituting category iii are enumerated in the second schedule.
formulations constituting categories i ii and iii are enumerated in the third schedule.
to be furnished.
he urged that relevant information was required to be furnished and was indeed furnished by all the manufacturers in the prescribed form as required by paragraph 34 of the drugs prices control order.
it was only thereafter that notifications fixing the prices were issued.
if that was not done the remedy would become illusory.
order induces us to hold that price fixation under the drugs prices control.
order is not a legislative activity but a quasi judicial activity which would attract the observance of the principles of natural justice.
nor is there anything in the scheme or the provisions of the drugs prices control order which otherwise contemplates the observance of any principle of natural justice or kindred rule the non observance of which would give rise to a cause of action to a suitor.
in the present case the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of drugs prices control.
order is to be made for the purposes of fixing the maximum price at which a bulk drug may be sold with a view to regulating its equitable distribution and making it available at a fair price.
it is primarily from the consumer public s point of view that the government is expected to make its enquiry.
the enquiry obviously is not to be confined to obtaining information from the manufacturers only and indeed must go beyond.
in fixing the price of a bulk drug the government is expressly required by the order to take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on net worth.
for this purpose too the government may gather information from any source including the manufacturers.
here again the enquiry by the government need not be restricted to an efficient manufacturer or some manufacturers nor need it be extended to all manufacturers.
notwithstanding that the price fixation is a legislative activity the subordinate legislation had taken care here to provide for a review.
it is a curious amalgam of a hearing which occasionally precedes a subordinate legislative activity such as the fixing of municipal rates etc.
it is a hearing which follows a subordinate legislative activity intended to provide an opportunity to affected persons such as the manufacturers the industry and the consumer public to bring to the notice of the subordinate legislating body the difficulties or problems experienced or likely to be experienced by them consequent on the price fixation whereupon the government may make appropriate orders.
any decision taken by the government can not be confined to the individual manufacturer seeking review but must necessarily affect all manufacturers of the bulk drug as well as the consumer public.
in other words the review if it is fruitful must result in fresh subordinate legislative activity.
it is difficult to give it a label and to fit it into a pigeon hole legislative administrative or quasi judicial.
but whatever procedure is adopted it must be a procedure tuned to the situation.
in the context of the drug industry with which we are concerned and in regard to which the control order is made we must proceed on the basis that the manufacturers of bulk drugs are generally persons who know all that is to be known about the price fixed by the government.
from the legislative nature of the activity of the government it is clear that the government is under no obligation to make any disclosure of any information received and considered by it in making the order but in order to render effective the right to seek a review given to an aggrieved person we think that the government if so requested by the aggrieved manufacturer is under an obligation to disclose any relevant information which may reasonably be disclosed pertaining to the average cost of production of the bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and the reasonable return on net worth.
that we think is the nature and scope of the review contemplated by paragraph 27 in relation to orders made under paragraphs 3 12 and 13.
in shivaii nathubhai v union of india ors 1960 indlaw sc 430 supra it was decided by the court that the power of review granted to the central government under rule 54 of the mineral concession rules required the authority to act judicially and its decision would be a quasi judicial act and the fact that rule 54 gave power to the central government to pass such order as it may deem just and proper did not negative the duty to act judicially.
in swadeshi cotton mills it was observed that in cases where owing to the compulsion of the fact situation or the necessity of taking speedy action no pre decisional hearing is given but the action is followed soon by a full post decisional hearing to the person affected there is in reality no exclusion of the audi alteram partem rule.
it is no adaptation of the rule to meet the situational urgency.
in liberty oil mills v union of india 1984 indlaw sc 326 supra the question arose whether clause 8b of the import control order which empowered the central government or the chief controller to keep in abeyance applications for licences or allotment of imported goods where any investigation is pending into an imported goods where any investigation is pending into an allegation mentioned in cl.
8 excluded the application of the principles of natural justice.
the court pointed out that it would be impermissible to interpret a statutory instrument to exclude natural justice unless the language of the instrument left no option to the court.
it may also be questioned on any ground on which a subordinate legislation may be questioned such as being contrary to constitutional or other statutory provisions.
it was however submitted that the guidelines were not adhered to and that facts and figures were arbitrarily assumed.
as already stated by us manufacturers of bulk drugs who claim to be affected by the drugs prices control.
order belong to a class of persons who are well and fully informed of every intricate detail and particular which is required to be taken into account in determining the price.
it is impossible to conceive that they can not sit across the table and discuss item by item with the reviewing authority unless they are furnished in advance full details and particulars.
the affidavits filed on behalf of the union of india show that the procedure which is adopted in hearing the review applications is to discuss across the table the various items that have been taken into account.
if necessary it is always open to the manufacturers to seek a short adjournment of the hearing of the review application to enable them to muster more facts and figures on their side.
indeed we find that the hearing given to the manufacturers is often protected.
he learned counsel argued that there were several patent errors which came to light during the course of the hearing in the high court.
he said that obsolete quantitative usages had been taken into consideration proximate cost data had been ignored and the data relating to the year ending november 1976 had been adopted as the basis.
it was submitted that there were errors in totalling errors in the calculation of prices of utilities errors in the calculation of net worth and many other similar errors.
as we pointed out earlier these are all matters which should legitimately be raised in the review application if there is any substance in them.
referring to the proforma attached to form No 1 of the fourth schedule in which are set out several items which have to be taken into account in assessing the cost of production the learned counsel attacks the notes at the end of item No 14 which mentions the various items of expenses to be excluded in ascertaining the cost.
b bad debts and provisions.
c donations and charities.
d loss gain on sale of assets.
e brokerage and commission.
f expenses not recognized by income tax authorities salary prequisities advertisements etc.
g adjustments relating to previous years.
similarly where expenses have been legitimately incurred and allowed by income tax authorities there was no justification for excluding those items of expenditure from the cost.
it was open to the subordinate legislating body to prescribe and adopt its own mode of ascertaining the cost of production and the items to be included and excluded in so doing.
so long as the method prescribed and adopted by the subordinate legislating body is not arbitrary and opposed to the principal statutory provisions it can not be legitimately questioned.
he submitted that the price of a formulation was dependant on the price of the bulk drug and it was therefore not right to fix the price of formulation when the price of bulk drug was in question in the review application and there was a prospect of the price of the bulk drug being increased.
hus the ups and downs of commerce are inevitable and it is not possible to devise a fool proof system to take care of every possible defect and objection.
it is certainly not a matter at which the court could take a hand.
but as we perceive the public interest it is necessary that the price of formulation should be fixed close on the heels of the fixation of bulk drug price.
another submission of shri diwan was that there was considerable delay in the disposal of the review applications by the government and that even now no orders had been passed in several cases.
accordingly to the learned counsel the very delay in the disposal of review applications was sufficient to vitiate the entire proceeding and scheme of price fixation.
if review applications are not disposed of expeditiously the notifications fixing the prices must be struck down as having become obsolete.
it is difficult to agree with these propositions.
in the present case on ex parte interim order was made on april 20 1981 in the following terms in the meanwhile on the petitioners giving an undertakings to maintain prices both for bulk and formulation as were prevailing prior to the impugned notification we stay implementation of the impugned bulk drug prices as well as formulation prices.
it is made clear that the undertaking is without prejudice to the petitioners right to take appropriate directions from the supreme court if so advised in this regard.
no doubt the order as made on november 25 1981 has the manufacturers on terms but the consumer public has been left high and dry.
in matters of fixation of price it is the interest of the consumer public that must come first and any interim order must take care of that interest.
apart from the fact that an appeal is ordinarily considered to be a continuation of the original proceeding in the present case we notice that further orders of the supreme court were also in contemplation and such further orders could only be if appeals were preferred to the supreme court.
however we think that it is necessary to give a direction to the government to dispose of the review applications after giving a notice of hearing to the manufacturer.
any information sought by the manufacturer may be given to him at the hearing in terms of what we have said in the judgment.
it appears that although several writ petitions filed by different manufacturers were disposed of by the high court by a common judgment the union of india filed an appeal within the prescribed period of limitation against one of the manufacturers cynamide india limited only.
as these petitions were filed beyond the prescribed period of limitation petitions for condoning the delay in filing the petitions for special leave to appeal had to be and were filed.
it is contended that the government is a well verse litigant as compared with private litigants and even if there is justification of adopting a liberal approach in condoning delay in the case of private litigants there was no need to adopt such approach in the case of the government.
in cases like the present where parties have acted on the assumption that no appeals had been filed against them and have proceeded to arrange their affairs accordingly it would be unjust to condone the delay in filing the appeals at the instance of the government.
one is that all the writ petitions were disposed of by a common judgment and an appeal had been filed in the principal case.
order accordingly.
