in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
weaving works.
nos 24 and 5 in the name of respondent no 2m s.
bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
the main controversy was whether the appellant had sublet the premises to defendant no 2bharat neon signs or whether he being a partner of the said firm had permitted the said firm to use the premises in question.
it is clear from the evidence on record that the partnership firm had undergone metamorphosis from time to time and again ever since the year 1960 the firm bharat neon signs first originated on 4th of october1960 as many as six persons were named in the partnership firm on or about 4th of october1960 and they had executed a deed of partnership on 13th of october1960 which is exhibit 114 on the record.
however the document is silent as to where the business was started.
on or about 24th of october1960.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
the document is exhibit 69 and is signed by the father of the appellant and the appellant himself also.
it may be mentioned that the partnership deed exhibit 114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
september1961 at this time the share of the appellant was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee to share the profits only.
in 1965 some partners retired and the remaining four partners executed a fresh partnership deed exhibit 117 on 1st.
april1965 this last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants.
nos 34 and 5.
the main question in issue in this appeal as well as before the high court in revision was whether there was a genuine partnership at the appellant was a partner.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
a i r 1972 gujarat 6 1970 indlaw guj 68 thakkar j of the gujarat high court as the learned judge then was held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession.
indlaw sc 748.
it accordingly decreed the suit for possession instituted by the landlord.
in the premises the appeal was allowed.
it may be mentioned that the respondent no 1 is the landlord of two premises which were quite adjacent as mentioned before.
it may be mentioned that by the time the revision petition came to be decided by the high court the suit had been decreed in his favour directing a dissolution of the said partnership and directing taking of the accounts.
the court of small causes came to the conclusion on an analysis of the evidence before it and the terms of the three partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore that there was a genuine partnership in law which was acted upon.
the first question therefore is whether the high court could do so in the facts of this case and secondly whether the high court was right in so doing.
the first question therefore is what is a partnership.
that has to be found in section 4 of the indian partnership act1932it says partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all emphasis supplied.
the following important elements must be there in order to establish partnership1 there must be an agreement entered into by all parties concerned2.
but there is nothing illegal about it.
the appellate court had considered the partnership deeds.
it was in the second partnership deed that the appellant and his father joined the firm.
the firm started as emphasised by mr mehta on 4th of october1960 and it was only on the 24th of october1960 the second partnership deed was executed.
secondly it was emphasised by mr mehta that the partnership deed was a camouflage.
it is evident from the sales tax registration and other registration certificates and licences under the shops and establishments act that the partnership was registered in the name of the appellant and the appellant was also indicated as a partner.
it was so in the income tax returns and assessments.
but the question is from the three deeds itself which were examined in detail by the court of small causes and which were re examined by the high court could it be said unequivocally that there was no partnership.
the deeds gave the appellant the right to share the profits and made him agent for certain limited purposes of the firm and there was evidence that the partnership deeds were acted upon.
all these factors were present before the court of small causes.
the first partnership deed which is exhibit 114 is dated 13th october1960 it recited that the partnership firm should be presently started at ahmedabad and the same should later be started in another city.
it recited that the partnership started from 4th of october1960 at ahmedabad.
it was registered in the name of 7th and 8th partners girdharlal who was the appellant and his father.
it is embodied in the deeds the functioning of the partnership.
1 the entire work of our partnership has to be carried out in the name of bharat neon signs.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
in any event all these factors were considered by the court of small causes bearing in mind the correct legal principles.
the high court on a reappraisal of these very evidence came to the conclusion that the partnerships were camouflages and were not acted upon and in fact and in reality the partnership firm was a sub tenant of the appellant herein.
scr 933 1961 indlaw sc 157 had to consider section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent corntrol act1952.
kapur j who delivered a separate judgment however observed that the power under section 351 of the said act of interference by the high court is not restricted to a proper trial according to law or error in regard to onus of proof or proper opportunity of being heard.
it is very much wider than that when in the opinion of the high court the decision is erroneous on the question of law which affects the merits of the case or decision was manifestly unjust the high court is entitled to interfere.
in that case the question whether the appellant was legally married no finding was necessary in the eviction suit.
it was sufficient for the rent court to proceed on the finding that the appellant and s were living together as husband and wife whether they were legally married or not.
it was further held that whether there was subletting was not a mixed question of law and fact.
it extended to corrections of all errors which would make the decision contrary to law.
he dealt with the human problem under section 132 of bombay rent act considering the relative hardships of the landlord and the tenant and to arrive at a just solution he was of the opinion that the court should have such wide field.
in this view in our opinion the ambit of the power was expressed in rather wide amplitude.
secondly the facts have been properly appreciated and a decision arrived at taking all material and relevant facts in mind.
it must be such a decision which no reasonable man could have arrived at.
lastly such a decision does not lead to a miscarriage of justice.
if a possible view has been taken the high court would be exceeding its jurisdiction to substitute its own view with that the courts below because it considers it to be a better view.
the fact that the high court would have taken a different view is wholly irrelevant.
judged by that standard we are of the opinion that the high court in this case had exceeded its jurisdiction.
1966the gujarat high court after dealing with the gujarat amendment act xviii of 1965 observed that the legislature has not intended to equate the ambit of the power with the one exercised in an appeal.
indlaw sc 244 observed that where lower courts applied their minds properly in deciding a matter under section 132 of the bombay rent act the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence under section 292 of the act as substituted by the gujarat act 18 of 1965 this court reiterated that although the high court had wider power than that which could be exercised under section 115 of c p c yet its revisional power could only be exercised for a limited purpose with a view to satisfying itself that the decision was according to law.
the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence.
in the instant case the basic question is whether keeping in background the partnership deeds referred to hereinbefore and the facts that came to light was there partnership or not.
madras 379 1958 indlaw mad 820 observed that whether the relation of partnership between two or more persons does or does not exit must depend on the real intention and contract of the parties and not merely on their expressed intention.
he also referred to section 4 of the partnership act about the principles of partnership namely1 there must be agreement entered into by all the persons concerned 2 the agreement must be to share the profits of a business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
the court of small causes considered these principles evaluated the evidence and held that there was in fact and in law a partnership.
such a view was not an impossible one or a perverse one.
if that was so there was nothing that could be clone about such a view within the ambit and scope of the power of section 292 of the rent act.
in the light of the aforesaid principles and the facts that have emerged we are of the opinion that the high court exceeded its jurisdiction under section 292 of the rent act.
in the result the appeal is allowed and the judgment and order of the gujarat high court dated 21st of august1979 are set aside.
appeal allowed.
