that suit was resisted by the defendants each of them having filed separate written statements which in sub stance did not differ from each other.
court it also made a preliminary decree in favour of the plaintiff for redemption of the suit properties.
it is the judgment and order of the learned single judge of the high court by which he allowed the second appeal and remanded the suit which is appealed against in this civil appeal of the plaintiff as is stated at the outset.
however the arguments addressed before us on behalf of the plaintiff appellant in support of the appeal by learned senior counsel mr s k dholakia were these that defendant l respondent l although was in possession of the suit properties.
even otherwise it was argued by him that the civil court before whom the plaintiff had filed the suit for redemption of the suit properties could not have driven the plaintiff to the forum of mamlatdar merely because the defendants had raised the plea that they were tenants of the suit properties agricultural lands.
according to him when the plaintiff had not admitted that the defendants were tenants of the suit properties it was not open to the defendants to force the plaintiff who had a right to choose his forum to file a suit to go before another forum on the plea that jurisdiction lay before another forum that is mamlatdar.
however learned counsel appearing for the defendants respondents sought to refute the arguments advanced on half of the plaintiff appellant.
bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948.
4 a person lawfully cultivating any land belonging to another person shall be deemed to be a tenant if such land is not cultivated personally by the owner and if such person is not a a member of the owner s family or b a servant on wages payable in cash or kind but not in crop share or a hired labourer cultivating the land under the personal supervision of the owner or any member of the owner s family or c a mortgagee in possession.
70 for the purposes of this act the following shall be the duties and functions to be performed by the mamlatdar a to decide whether a person is an agriculturist b to decide whether a person is a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant c to decide such other matters as may be referred to him by or under this 85 1 no civil court shall have jurisdiction to settle decide or deal with any question which is by or under this act required to be settled decided or dealt with by the mamlatdar or tribunal a manager the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal in appeal or revision or the state government in exercise of their powers of control.
2 no order of the mamlatdar the tribunal the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal or the state government made under this act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
section 85a as it stood before the amendment of this act by gujarat act no 5 of 1973 w e f 3rd march1973.
85a i.
question 1.
merger takes place when a lesser estate is merged or drowned in a greater estate.
lease hold held by a tenant or a lessee being a lesser estate and the right of reversion of the landlord lessor being a higher estate the lessee s lease hold right in respect of the property merges in reversion when that right of reversion i e.
if that be so merger of lease hold estate in reversion can not arise inasmuch as there can not be any inconsistency or incompatibility in one person being the tenant and also the mortgagee of the same property for in that event instead of the tenant paying rent to the landlord he may adjust it against the amount claimable by him as a mortgagee from the landlord.
in the present case as has already been pointed out by us the plaintiff appellant did not claim that the defendants or any of them were in possession of the suit properties as tenants and there was a surrender by them of the possession either expressly or impliedly as would make the court to come to the conclusion that the possession of the suit properties with the defendants was surrendered by them pursuant to the mortgage by conditional sale executed in their favour.
if that be the position there can be no bar for the defendants to claim the right to continue in possession of the suit properties as tenants under the bt.
al act even if the plaintiff could obtain a decree for redemption of the suit properties which relief was sought in the suit.
shah mathuradas case 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra was that where the respondent had executed a mortgage in favour of the appellant respecting a premises of which he was a tenant.
in the present case as we have pointed out earlier when no surrender of possession of the suit properties had taken place before the coming into existence of mortgages in favour of the lessor mortgagor when no redelivery of possession had been given pursuant to the mortgage to the tenant the decision under consideration can be of no assistance to the appellant.
coming to g appalaswamy case 1984 indlaw sc 314 supra which considered the question whether a sitting tenant who took property by a possessory or usufructuary mortgage in his favour was liable to deliver physical possession upon redemption to the mortgagor.
former lessor this court dealing with the said question said that all depends upon whether there was an implied surrender of the lessee s rights when the usufructuary mortgage was executed in his favour by the lessor mortgagor and only if an implied surrender of lossee s rights could be inferred then the mortgagor would be entitled to have delivery of physical possession upon redemption but not otherwise.
dealing with the question of non merger this court approved the ratio of the decision in shah mathuradas 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra thus in our view there can be no merger of a lease and a mortgage even where the two transactions are in respect of the same property.
it is well settled that for a merger to arise it is necessary that lesser estate and a higher estate should merge in one person at one and the same time and in the same right and no interest in the property should remain outstanding.
accordingly there can not be a merger of a lease and a mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
hence the lease hold of a tenant lessee in a property does not merge in mortgage security of that property even if it is given to.
him by the landlord lessor on a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining decree for redemption of the mortgage.
question 2.
bombay had exclusive jurisdiction in dealing with the suit out of which the appeal had arisen.
it instituted a suit in the bombay city civil court not the court of small causes bombay praying for a declaration that it was in lawful possession of the shop and the appellants had no right to enter into or remain in possession of the shop and for grant of an injunction restraining the appellants from interfering with the respondent s possession.
if he establishes the correctness of his facts he will get his relief from the forum chosen.
if it is found on a trial on the merits so far as this issue of jurisdiction goes that the facts alleged by the plaintiff are not true and the facts alleged by the defendants are true and that the case is not cognizable by the court there will be two kinds of orders to be passed.
if the jurisdiction is only one relating to territorial limits or pecuniary limits the plaint will be ordered to be returned for presentation to the proper court.
if on the other hand it is found that having regard to the nature of the suit it is not cognizable by the class of court to which the court belongs the plaintiff s suit will have to be dismissed in its entirety.
if therefore the plaintiff in his plaint does not admit a relation which would attract any of the provisions of the act on which the exclusive jurisdiction given under s 28 depends we do not think that the defendant by his plea can force the plaintiff to go to a forum where on his averments he can not go.
but if the provisions of the bt al act which bear on the question of matters to be decided by the mamlatdar are seen they give no room for one even to think that those matters could be decided by a civil court when a question is raised in that behalf even by a defendant in a suit.
section 70 of the bt al act to which we have adverted already imposes a duty on the mamlatdar to decide whether a person is an agriculturist or a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant when such person claims to be so under that act.
further section 85 of the bt al act to which also we have already adverted in unequivocal terms says that in deciding any issue which is required to be decided by the mamlatdar under the bt al act no civil court has jurisdiction to decide it.
furthermore section 85a as it stood prior to its amendment by gujarat amendment act no 5 in the year 1973 and as stands thereafter requires that if any suit instituted in civil court involves the question of tenancy of present or pastas the case may be the same being required to be decided or dealt with by an authority competent under the bt al act the civil court has to stay the suit and refer the issue to such competent authority for determination and after receiving the decision thereon to dispose of the suit in accordance with such decision.
consequently the judgment and order under appeal does not call for our interference.
in the result we dismiss this appeal with costs.
appeal dismissed.
