in the event of contravention of the conditions guidelines norms and regula tions of the aicte the aicte could withdraw the approval at any time.
meanwhile the mahatama gandhi university by their letter dated 31 5 1995 forwarded to the government a list of colleges and courses for affiliation during the academic year 1995 96 the appellant s college was shown as one of the colleges among the affiliated colleges for the said period.
in inviting your attention to the reference cited i am to inform you that government regret their inability to comply with your request.
the learned single judge of the high court by his judgment dated 14 1 1997 allowed the writ petition quashed the above said order of the government dated 16 8 1996 and directed the mahatama gandhi university to consider the appellant s application for permanent affiliation without reference to the above letter of the government and pass appropriate order within 8 weeks from the date of the receipt of a copy of the judgment.
the government was also directed to reconsider its decision.
it is against the abovesaid judgment of the division bench that this appeal has been preferred.
learned senior counsel for the appellant.
sri t l vishwanatha.
in so far as institutions imparting technical education were concerned the university or the state government had no independent role to play except to the extent provided in the above said enactment in the present case the aicte had made inspections and was satisfied that the necessary infrastructure was available and that the appellant would be able to conform to the required standards of the education.
othersl995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
on the other hand learned additional solicitor general sri mukul rohtagi contended on behalf of the state of kerala that the policy of the state of kerala at the relevant time was not to grant approval for establish ment of more engineering colleges in the state.
also there were four engineering colleges at kannur trichur kottayam and thiruvananthapuram districts and three private aided engineering colleges at palakkad ernakulam kothamangalam and kollam districts.
the model engineering college emakulam was a selffinancing engineering college and others were the colleges at changannur and pathansamthitta and there was a self financing engineering college at kasargode.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
the following points arise for consideration 1.
2 whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the aicte permission.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
before we refer to the abovesaid judgment it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the aicte act and the relevant regulations.
cl s to declare technical institutions as fit to receive grants cl t to advice for declaring institutions to be deemed as universities cl u to set up a national board of accreditation.
s 11 of the act deals with inspection.
regulations have been framed on 31st october1994 by the aicte in exercise of powers conferred on it by s 231 of the aicte act.
regulation 2 states that these regulations will be applicable to proposals relating to a grant of approval of the council for establishment of new technical institutions including universities or university depart ments and deemed universities and for technical institutions function ing on the date of commencement of these regulations at degree and diploma levels b grant of approval of the council for introduction of any course or programme in the technical institutions and technical departments or universities or deemed universities c grant of approval of the council for existing intake capacity of seats and for increase in the annual intake capacity of seats in courses and programmes.
d no approved intake capacity of seats shall be increased or varied except with the approval of the council.
regulation 5 deals with the forms of the applications and regulation 6 deals with the conditions for grant of approval sub cls 1 of regulation 6 deals with the financial position.
sub cl 2 with the courses or programmes and sub cl 3 deals with the power of admissions and sub cl 4 with tuition fees etc and sub cl 5 with the staff and sub cl 6 with the governing body of the private institutions and subcl 7 with other matters.
regulation 8 deals with scrutiny of applications.
sub cl 4 of regulation 8 reads as follows.
the bureau rc shall invite comments recommendations on the applications referred to in sub regulation 3 from the follow ing namely.
i the state government concerned ii the affiliating university state board of technical education iii bureaus mpcd iv bureau bos v bureau ra vi the regional office.
sub cl 5 of regulation 8 requires the regional office to arrange visits by an expert committee constituted by the council which is to forward its recommendations to the council.
on the recommendation of the central task force the council shall decide the question of grant of approval as sought for in the application.
provided that the council may for reasons to be communicated to the applicant allow the approval with such restrictions or modifications as it may deem necessary.
in the above matter the state of tamil nadu granted permission on 17 4 84 to all private managements to start private engineering colleges without financial commitment to government but subject to conditions.
the government of tamil nadu granted permission to the trust for the academic year 1987 88 to start an engineering college.
88 later on these permissions were withdrawn by the state after issuing show cause on 16 7 89 so did the university on 26 7 89 but by that date the aicte act1987 had come into force.
the said judgments were affirmed by this court.
it was held that the aicte act was referable to entry 66list.
after the constitutional amendment 42 amendment act1976 entry 25 of list iii in the concurrent list.
i in the above case this court referred to the various provisions of the aicte act and on the question of repugnancy held as follows.
if there was any such existing law immediately before the commencement of the constitution within the meaning of art 372 of the constitution as the madras university act 1923 on the enactment of the present central act the provisions of the said law if repugnant to the provisions of the central act would stand impliedly repealed to the extent of repugnancy.
such repugnancy would have to be adjudged on the basis of the tests which are applied for adjudging repugnancy u art 254 of the constitution.
it was stated that inasmuch as the state act will overlap and will be in conflict with the provisions of the central act in various areas.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
inspection of technical institution which are matters covered by the central act.
it is not the university act and the university but it is the central act and the council created under it which will have the jurisdiction.
all that was necessary was that under the regulations the aicte council had to consult them.
it was however contended that the tamil nadu case was concerned only with the standards of education and as to who could fix them.
we are not inclined to agree.
it reads as follows grant of affiliation 1.
in case affiliation is granted the fact shall be reported to the senate at its next meet ing.
it will be noticed that cl 97 of the statute required that before the university took a decision on affiliationit had to ascertain the views of the state government.
sub cl 1 of cl 9 of the statute required verification of the facilities that may exist for starting the new colleges course.
the commission was to inspect the site verify the title deeds as regards the proprietary right of the management over the land and buildings if any offered building accommodation provided if any assets of the management constitution of the registered body and all other relevant matters sub cl 2 of cl 9 stated that the affiliation shall depend upon the fulfilment by the management of all the conditions for the satisfactory establishment and maintenance of the proposed institutional courses of studies and on the reports of inspection by the commission or commissions which the university may appoint for the purpose.
if indeed the university statute could be so inter preted such a provision requiring approval of the state government would be repugnant to the provisions of s 10k of the aicte act1987 and would again be void.
as pointed out in the tamil nadu case there were enough provisions in the central act for consultation by the council of the aicte with various agencies including the state governments and the universities concerned.
in case of difference of opinion as between the various consultees the aicte would have to go by the views of the central task force.
no doubt the question of affiliation was a different matter and was not covered by the central act but in the tamil nadu case it was held that the university could not impose any conditions inconsistent with the aicte act or its regulation or the conditions imposed by the aicte therefore the procedure for obtaining the affiliation and any conditions which could be imposed by the university could not be inconsistent with the provisions of the central act.
if the university statute required approvalit would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
point 1 is decided accordingly.
factual position and pleadings in this case.
the aicte had granted condition approval and the conditions were specified in annexure.
the letter said that for that reason the proposals of the university were being submitted to the government for necessary action.
the all india council for technical education and the mahatma gandhi university have sought for the remarks of the state government.
the state government in its counter then gave the names of the existing colleges and their location.
it also observed that there was widespread student prospects against starting new colleges and it was necessary to be cautious in the matter of starting new engineering colleges.
state government s refusal to grant permission is illegal and void on merits.
as already stated in view of the judgment of this court in tamil nadu case it is obvious that there is no need to approach the state of kerala for its approval for starting the engineering colleges.
even on merits the reasons given by the state government in its counter are not tenable in law.
the aicte s approval dated 30 4 95 showed that the approval had been given by the state level com mittee of which they were obviously members.
it is therefore not under standable how the director had given a contrary opinion to the state government.
the letter of approval of the aicte dated 30 4 95 showed that the central task force had given its approval.
decision of university in not granting further or fined affiliation wrong on merits.
obtaining the views of the state government as already stated did not amount to obtaining its approval.
the appeal is allowed and disposed of as stated above.
m jagannadha rao j.
appeal allowed.
