he therefore held that when a public duty is called upon to be discharged by a private management a writ of mandamus would lie and could be issued under article 226 of the constitution.
302that a writ in the nature of mandamus certiorari and prohibition are recognised as public law remedies and are not available to enforce private law rights.
the form of the body concerned is not very much relevant.
hence this appeal.
n anadi muktas case the contention similar to the present case had been raised.
in that background it was observed that if the rights are purely of a private character no mandamus could be issued and also if the management of the college were purely a private body with no public duty mandamus would not lie.
in that case the respondent was managing the affiliated college to which public money is paid as government aid which played a major role in the control maintenance and working of educational institutions.
the duty must be judged in the light of positive obligation owed by the person or authority to the affected party no matter by what means the duty is imposed if a positive obligation exists mandamus can not be denied.
in de smith woolf and jowells judicial review of administrative action5th edn.
it is noticed that not all the activities of the private bodies are subject to private law e g the activities by private bodies may be governed by the standards of public law when its decisions are subject to duties conferred by statute or when by virtue of the function it is performing or possibly its dominant position in the market it is under an implied duty to act in the public interest.
by way of illustration it is noticed that a private company selected to run a prison although motivated by commercial profit should be regarded at least in relation to some of its activities as subject to public law because of the nature of the function it is performing.
in such a case that branch of the law and its remedies should and normally will be applied and b where there is a contract between the litigants.
in such a case the express or implied terms of the agreement should normally govern the matter.
the high court has relied very strongly on the decision of a learned single judge in t gattaiahs case wherein it was stated that a writ may lie under article 226 of the constitution against a company incorporated under the companies act1956 as it is permissible to issue a writ against any person.
that decision does not take note of the fact as to the nature of the functions that a person or an incorporated company should be performing to attract judicial review under article 226 of the constitution.
in anadi muktas case this court examined the various aspects and the distinction between an authority and a person and after analysis of the decisions referred in that regard came to the conclusion that it is only in the circumstances when the authority or the person performs a public function or discharges a public duty article 226 of the constitution can be invoked.
manufacture and sale of cigarettes will not involve any public function.
that means it is a condition of service in relation to a workman providing better facilities to workmen to discharge their duties properly and maintain their own health or welfare.
if merely what can be considered a part of the conditions of service of a workman is violated then we do not think there is any justification to hold that such activity will amount to public duty.
shramik sena ors.
439 1999 indlaw sc 513referred to the decisions in parimal chandra rahas case reserve bank of india vs workmen1996.
scc 191 1996 indlaw sc 618and held that the workmen of a statutory canteen as in the present case would be workmen of an establishment for the purposes of the act only and not for other purposes.
the canteen has been there since the inception of the appellants factory.
the wages of the canteen workers have to be reimbursed by the appellant.
in the present case the findings recorded by the learned single judge on examination of the facts available is that there had been a canteen within the premises of the appellant up to the year 1982 and it is only from 1982 onwards the management of the canteen has been entrusted to a private contractor that even after change of the contractor the canteen workers have continued to be the same irrespective of the change in the contractors from time to time that wages were paid to the workmen in the canteen by the management through the contractor that the appellant has provided the accommodation furniture fuel electricity utensils etc.
that the management exercises control over the standard in quality quantity and the rate of the food items supplied to the workmen for whose benefit the canteen is established.
the appellant in any manner can not controvert these facts.
civil appeal nos 653397 653497.
in these appeals on a reference made on the question whether certain persons employed in the canteen should be treated as employees of the appellant and if so in what category they are to be fitted in and to what wages they are entitled to the industrial tribunal hyderabadhereinafter referred to as the tribunal inquired into the matter.
the contesting respondents contended that the workmen in the canteen had been working right from its inception that is since 1967 that from 1976 onwards after expiry of the contract with the industrial catering services they had been directly working with the appellant without any contractor that they sought for regularization of their services by letter dated 28 february 1978 that the said letter was corrected and redrafted by the personnel manager to indicate the idea of floating an association society to run the canteen that this modified request contained in ex.
the tribunal concluded that there was no doubt that the personnel manager modified ex.
the contributions like esi provident fund etc had also been categorically specified to be provided by the appellant and esi code for the permanent establishment and for the present workmen was the same that after the evidence was tendered by the workmen the appellant got the code changed and the appellant transferred the workmen from one place to another and that the amount to be surrendered by way of unpaid salaries had to be remitted back to the management.
in those circumstances the tribunal passed an award that these workmen should be treated as employees of the appellant and they are entitled to payment of appropriate scales and designations in terms of ex.
against this award a writ petition was filed before the high court.
the high court dismissed the same stating that it is covered by another matter.
however there is no material on record to show that the canteen is located in such an area where it would be hazardous to have a fire furnace source of heat or light to cook food.
in the absence of such material we find no substance in this contention.
in the circumstances aforesaid the contention vis vis the findings recorded by the tribunal we find absolutely no merit in these appeals and the same shall stand dismissed.
