appellant before us was detained u s 3 of the conservation of foreign exchange and prevention of smuggling activities.
act1974.
for short cofeposa.
he is the managing director of a company registered and incorporated under the provisions of the companies act known as m s sundesh springs private limited.
he allegedly misdeclared both the value and description of goods upon procuring fake and false bills through one prabhjot singh.
m s s p industrial corporation m s.
aaysons india and m s p j sales corporation ludhiana.
it was allegedly found that non alloy steel bars rods etc of value ranging from rs 15 to rs 17 per kg were exported in the guise of alloy steel forgings bars rods etc by declaring their value thereof from rs 110 to rs 150 per kg and the export proceeds over and above the actual price were being routed through hawala channel.
appellant and the said prabhjot singh made statements u s 108 of the customs act.
prabhjot singh allegedly admitted to have supplied fake bills to units owned and controlled by appellant on commission basis without actual supply of the goods.
it was also found that appellant had declared goods exported as alloy steel whereas after the tests conducted by central revenue control laboratory they were found to be other than alloy steeli e.
non alloy.
the consul economicconsulate general of india at dubai allegedly confirmed the existence of a parallel set of export invoices.
invoices with a higher value were presented before the indian customs authorities with a view to avail depb incentives but in fact invoices with a lower value were presented for clearance.
a letters patent appeal concededly which was not maintainable was filed thereagainst which was dismissed by reason of the impugned judgment.
before us several other grounds viz.
in the meantime admittedly the period of detention being over appellant had been set at large.
he was released from custody on 17 5 2006.
in this regard we may notice the following dates.
on 13 10 2003appellant was arrested.
furthermore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellants.
the order of detention was passed on 5 4 2005.
indisputably delay to some extent stands explained.
but we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2 12 2004the order of detention was passed after four months.
b l  2 misc.
am 2003 ldh dated 17 05 2004 is being referred which is not received in this office.
however when there is undue and long delay between the prejudicial activities and the passing of detention order the court has to scrutinise whether the detaining authority has satisfactorily examined such a delay and afforded a tenable and reasonable explanation as to why such a delay has occasioned when called upon to answer and further the court has to investigate whether the causal connection has been broken in the circumstances of each case.
in fact no reason in that behalf whatsoever has been assigned at all.
delay as is well known at both stages has to be explained.
serajul v state of west bengal 1975 2 scc 78 1974 indlaw sc 475this court opined there was thus delay at both stages and this delay unless satisfactorily explained would throw considerable doubt on the genuineness of the subjective satisfaction of the district magistrate burdwan recited in the order of detention.
in the instant case we have noticed hereinbefore that the authorities of dri themselves categorically stated that the activities of appellant after 11 10 2003 were not in question and in fact all the bank accounts were defreezed.
it may be true that the period of detention is over.
in a case of this nature we do not think in view of the admitted facts that we would not permit appellant to raise the said questions.
by reason of the civil court by orders dated 7 5 2004 and 31 5 2004the bank accounts of m s girnar and shri amar were defreezed.
by an order dated 13 8 2004the tribunal ordered release of goods.
if the same had not been done not only the delay in issuing the order of detention stood unexplained but also thereby the order itself would become vitiated.
furthermore the civil court proceedings were over on 19 11 2004.
evidently the detaining authority did not take immediate steps to detain appellant.
on their own showing respondents admit that they were relevant documents.
it is difficult for us to say that the detaining authority would have come to the subjective satisfaction solely on the strength of the confession attributed to the petitioner dated 7 11 1999particularly because it was retracted by him.
it is possible to presume that the confession made by the co accused sowkath ali would also have contributed to the final opinion that the confession made by the petitioner on 7 11 1999 can safely be relied on.
it contains the very stand of the detenu of whatever worth.
it may be that the detaining authority might have come to the same conclusion as the sponsoring authority but its contents are relevant which could not be withheld by the sponsoring authority.
it had specifically been referred to in extenso in the order of detention.
respondents contended that on first information report was registered against appellant as also one sepoy narender singh.
in paragraph 36 of the order of detention the detaining authority stated in view of the facts mentioned above i have no hesitation in arriving at the conclusion that you have through your acts of omission and commission indulged in prejudicial activities as narrated above.
learned additional solicitor general submitted that due to non supply of documents which were not vital or have merely been referred to as incidental the order of detention may not become vitiated as was been held by this court in kamarunnissa v.
1991 1 scc 128 1990 indlaw sc 85 the said decision was rendered in a different fact situation.
in the said decision this court stated the law thus if merely an incidental reference is made to some part of the investigation concerning a co accused in the grounds of detention which has no relevance to the case set up against the detenus it is difficult to understand how the detenus could contend that they were denied the right to make an effective representation.
it is not sufficient to say that the detenus were not supplied the copies of the documents in time on demand but it must further be shown that the non supply has impaired the detenu s right to make an effective and purposeful representation.
demand of any or every document however irrelevant it may be for the concerned detenu merely on the ground that there is a reference thereto in the grounds of detention cannot vitiate an otherwise legal detention order.
no hard and fast rule can be laid down in this behalf but what is essential is that the detenu must show that the failure to supply the documents before the meeting of the advisory board had impaired or prejudiced his right however slight or insignificant it may be.
in the present case except stating that the documents were not supplied before the meeting of the advisory board there is no pleading that it had resulted in the impairment of his right nor could counsel for the petitioners point out any such prejudice.
if the documents were material so as to enable the detenue to make an effective representation which is his constitutional as also statutory right non supply thereof would vitiate the order of detention.
in this case the statements of appellant and prabhjot singh in our opinion were material.
if original of the said documents were not available xeroxed copies thereof could have been made available to him.
the appeal is allowed.
no costs.
appeal allowed.
