appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of plot no 178 admeasuring 1067 sq m.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
he did not take any part in the proceedings therefor.
and its pole demarcations were done by the town planning officer at site.
in spite of this you have not handed over the possession.
if you fail to do so then on completion of the stipulated time limit as per the rule 33 of the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 the said land and the occupation on the same will be summarily evicted and your occupation will be removed and if you obstruct interfere on it after taking away the possession you trespass then as provided under rule 33 of the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
in the said writ petition it was prayed on the facts and circumstances mentioned herein above the petitioner prays to your lordships that a be pleased to issue writ of mandamus or writ in the nature of mandamus or appropriate writ order or direction quashing and setting aside the impugned action of acquiring and demolishing the structures available on the land in question i e original plot no 17 a r s no 17 p situated at umra surat.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
further it appears that if the interest of the landlord and of the tenant is common and in absence of any inter se dispute between the landlord and tenant even if any portion of the land which is in possession of the tenant is included in the scheme the proper remedy for the tenant would be to claim for compensation to that extent and if such compensation is not received by him he may resort to proper remedy available for recovery of the compensation to the extent of the area in his occupation.
at least on ground that the tenant is in occupation it would not be a case for interference with the scheme which is sanctioned and made a part of the statute.
but if the area of original plot no 178 is included in the final scheme and in exchange of the original plot held by keshav gramini of 178 and 177the final plot is already allotted and as observed earlier it was even otherwise in the ownership of the original holder and it is only on account of inter se dispute the other persons are lawfully occupying the land the tenant can not insist that his landlord must be allotted the land of final plot no 157 simultaneously when he is to be evicted or deprived of the portion of the land of original plot no 178 therefore in my view considering the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case the decision of the apex court in case of mansukhlal1991 indlaw sc 975 supra can not be made applicable to the present case.
mr u u lalit learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant in support of this appeal inter alia would submit i.
i public notices having been issued in terms of the rule 26 of the rules an objection which would nullify the scheme can not be entertained at this stage.
it is not necessary for us to delve deep into the statutory scheme.
a declaration of intention to make a scheme is to be notified whereafter a draft scheme may be published.
67 effect of preliminary scheme.
on the day on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
a all lands required by the appropriate authority.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
for eviction under section 68the appropriate authority shall follow the following procedure viz.
c if the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or servant deputed u cl b or.
if he re occupies the land after eviction.
for short the bombay rules are in pari materia with the rules.
any person affected by the proposal of the town planning scheme is entitled to inspect the scheme in the office where arrangements for explaining the scheme proposals are made.
it furthermore provides that any person entitled to claim damages in terms of s 82 of the act should communicate the details of his claim to the town planning officer.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
darji1991 indlaw sc 975 supra wherein this court opined that sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules was mandatory in nature subject of course to the condition that on the crucial date viz when the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette he whether an owner or tenant or sub tenant must be in possession of the property.
in jaswantsingh mathurasingh1991 indlaw sc 972 suprait was reiterated that a tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
in that context it was held the question is whether the tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
but he must be in possession of the property on the crucial date i e when.
amended rules are in pari materia with rule 26 of the rules.
appellant was a tenant in respect of plot no 178 plot no 177 was not a plot contiguous thereto.
it is also not in dispute that the appellant filed an objection in regard to the draft scheme but did not eventually pursue the same.
if he intended to claim any interest in a portion of plot no 178 either for the purpose of obtaining compensation for acquisition of a part of the land or to continue to have possession over 200 sq m of land in plot no 178it was obligatory on his part to take part in the proceedings.
it had also not been contended that the said rule is ultra vires s 52 of the act.
a person may waive a right either expressly or by necessary implication.
different statutes provide for different manner of service of notice.
every step taken by the state does not involve application of the doctrine of eminent domain.
existence of a public purpose and increase in the valuation of the property was admitted.
ors v.
in maneklal chhotalal1967.
indlaw sc 138 suprait was held therefore having due regard to the substantive and procedural aspects we are satisfied that the act imposes only reasonable restrictions in which case it is saved u art 195 of the constitution.
it is not a case where the state by its acts of omissions and commissions was unjustly enriching itself.
it was a dispute between two private parties as regards the right to obtain final allotment the principles underlying the same are not in dispute.
he has no enforceable claim against the state at this juncture.
he may pursue his claim only against the respondent no 4 in an appropriate proceedings wherein for certain purposes the state or the authorities may also be impleaded as a party.
it is not in dispute that a appellant although filed an objection with regard to the draft scheme did not choose to pursue it.
b he did not file objections for re allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the act.
it has been noticed by us hereinbefore that under rule 26 of the rules applicable in the instant case as distinguished from the bombay rules wherein special notice is requiredno special notice is mandatorily required to be served.
in halsbury s laws of england volume 1624th edition para 907it is stated the expression waiver may in law bear different meanings.
it may arise from a party making an election for example whether or not to exercise a contractual right.
it is true that waiver can not always and in every case be inferred merely from the failure of the party to take the objection.
1861 30 beav 65 54 e r 813817 waiver or acquiescence like election presupposes that the person to be bound is fully cognizant of his rights and that being so he neglects to enforce them or chooses one benefit instead of another either but not both of which he might claim.
it was stated we may in this connection refer to the decision in wilson v mcintosh.
in that case an applicant to bring lands under the real property act filed his case in court under section 21more than three months after a caveat had been lodged and thereafter obtained an order that the caveator should file her case which she accordingly did.
it was held that he had thereby waived his right to have the caveat set aside as lapsed u s 23 the privy council held that the limitation of time contained in s 23 was introduced for the benefit of the applicant to enable him to obtain a speedy determination of his right to have the land brought under the provisions of the act and that it was competent for the applicant to waive the limit of the three months and that he did waive it by stating a case and applying for and obtaining an order upon the appellant to state her case both which steps assumed and proceeded on the assumption of the continued existence of the caveat.
and now the applicant after all these proceedings have been taken by him after doubtless much expense has been incurred on the part of the caveator and after lying by and hoping to get a judgment of the court in his favour asks the court to do that which but for some reasons known to himself he might have asked the court to do before any other step in the proceedings had been taken.
i think he is altogether too late.
it is to my mind a clear principle of equity and i have no doubt there are abundant authorities on the point that equity will interfere to prevent the machinery of an act of parliament being used by a person to defeat equities which he has himself raised and to get rid of a waiver created by his own acts.
but if it appears that the statutory conditions were inserted by the legislature simply for the security or benefit of the parties to the action themselves and that no public interests are involved such conditions will not be considered as indispensable and either party may waive them without affecting the jurisdiction of the court.
applying the above principles to the present case it must be held that the benefit of notice provided under the act and rules being for the benefit of the appellant in which no public interests are involved he has waived the same.
indlaw sc 681though the principle was stated far more precisely in the following terms the principle of waiver although is akin to the principle of estoppel the difference between the two however is that whereas estoppel is not a cause of action it is a rule of evidence waiver is contractual and may constitute a cause of action it is an agreement between the parties and a party fully knowing of its rights has agreed not to assert a right for a consideration.
a right can be waived by the party for whose benefit certain requirements or conditions had been provided for by a statute subject to the condition that no public interest is involved therein.
in ramdev food products pvt.
ltd v.
it is well settled that what can not be done directly can not be done indirectly.
a person who is entitled to rely on a stipulation existing for his benefit alone in a contract or of a statutory provision may waive it and allow the contract or transaction to proceed as though the stipulation or provision did not exist.
in this view of the matter it may safely be stated that the appellant through his conduct has waived his right to an equitable remedy in the instant case.
lalit submits that his client is ready and willing to pay some reasonable amount to the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been finally allotted.
no costs.
appeal dismissed.
