whether the appellant herein and his father had sublet the premises in question in or about 1960 in terms of section 131e of the bombay rents hotel and lodging house rates control act1947.
hereinafter called the rent act is the question involved in this appeal by special leave from the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 21st of august1979.
in order to decide this question it is necessary to decide the scope and ambit of section 292 of the rent act.
to decide this facts must be referred to.
the appellant claimed to be the tenant in respect of the two premises which are quite adjacent to each other one of which is involved in this appeal.
the respondent is the landlord of the two premises and these were situated at raikhad ward ahmedabad.
the respondent had alleged in the two suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased out to him and before him his father for conducting the business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works.
the respondent had further alleged that the appellant no 1 had closed the business and he was not using the said premises for the purpose for which it was let to him.
it was the case of the appellant that in respect of the suit premises he was carrying on his business with respondents.
nos 24 and 5 in the name of respondent no 2m s.
bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
we are concerned in this appeal with only one of the premises which was involved in suit no 553 of 1969 it is not in dispute and it never was that the premises was being used by bharat neon signs firm being the defendant no 2 in the original suit.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
the present appellant who was the original defendant no 1 claimed to be a partner.
the main controversy was whether the appellant had sublet the premises to defendant no 2bharat neon signs or whether he being a partner of the said firm had permitted the said firm to use the premises in question.
it is clear from the evidence on record that the partnership firm had undergone metamorphosis from time to time and again ever since the year 1960 the firm bharat neon signs first originated on 4th of october1960 as many as six persons were named in the partnership firm on or about 4th of october1960 and they had executed a deed of partnership on 13th of october1960 which is exhibit 114 on the record.
the said partnership deed records six persons who were to run the business in manufacturing and selling bharat neon signs tubes.
however the document is silent as to where the business was started.
on or about 24th of october1960.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
the document is exhibit 69 and is signed by the father of the appellant and the appellant himself also.
it may be mentioned that the partnership deed exhibit 114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
there is a third partnership deed exhibit 70 which showed that the deceased tenant girdharlal had died on 1st of february1961 and so by the remaining seven partners with same terms and conditions a new partnership deed being exhibit 70 was executed on 22nd.
september1961 at this time the share of the appellant was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee to share the profits only.
the main question in issue in this appeal as well as before the high court in revision was whether there was a genuine partnership at the appellant was a partner.
it is true that since after 4th of october1960 the partnership firm was carrying on business in the premises in question.
it is well settled that if there was such a partnership firm of which the appellant was a partner as a tenant the same would not amount to subletting leading to the forfeiture of the tenancy.
indlaw sc 748.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
the respondent plaintiff had alleged in both the suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased to him for conducting his business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit the suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine weaving works.
for the purpose of the suit no 553 of 1969 with which the appeal is concerned it is relevant to state that the appellant had raised the contention that ahmedabad fine weaving works was not the tenant of the suit premies but the suit premises was tenanted by the father of the appellant girdharlal chimalal in 1938 and he was the original tenant of the premises and appellant subsequently joined the business of his father as a partner and the name of the partnership firm was ahmedabad fine weaving works.
it is further stated that he had filed a civil suit to dissolve the partnership and to take account and his suit was pending in city civil court.
therefore the first question that had to be decided by the appellate court being the court of small causes bombay and if a revision lay before the high court was whether there was any genuine partnership.
the agreement must be to share profits of business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
the appellant was to bring his asset being the tenancy of the premises in question for the user of the partnership.
but the question is from the three deeds itself which were examined in detail by the court of small causes and which were re examined by the high court could it be said unequivocally that there was no partnership.
3 whatever moneys that may be required to be invested in our partnership are to be invested by the parties of the first second third fourth and seventh parts out of us and the interest at the rate of 712 per cent per annum has to be paid for the moneys that may be invested in this partnership.
the high court may at any time call for the record of any case under this act for the purpose of satisfying itself that a decision made therein is according to law and may pass such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit.
1961 indlaw sc 157 supra bhagwati j observed that the ambit of section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent control act which fell for consideration in hari shanker s case 1961 indlaw sc 157 supra was the same as section 293 of the bombay rent act and therefore he expressed the opinion that the high court could interfere only if there was miscarriage of justice due to mistake of law.
there the learned judge relying on section 292 of the said act held that the revisional power with which the high court was vested under section 292 was not merely in the nature of jurisdictional control.
appeal allowed.
