accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
it was an arranged marriage.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
the father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time because he lacked the resources.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
it is the case of the prosecution that for non payment of dowry the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
they even refused to send her to her parental house.
this was informed by the deceased to various persons including her relatives and elders.
she was unable to bear the cruelty to which she was subjected by the accused persons.
on 15th february2003at about 11 a m the deceased committed suicide by hanging herself in the house of the accused.
when pathan basheerunnisa lw3 returned from her work the accused sent her out giving her money to bring the soaps upon which she went out and when she came back she found the accused absent and the bride hanging in the house.
subsequently lw 3 pathan basheerunnisa sent her grandson pathan inayatullah khan lw 4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
when the parents of the deceased came to the house of the accused and found the deceased hanging from the beam with a saree they untied her and took her to the government general hospital guntur hoping that the deceased may be alive.
the father of the deceased pathan yasin khan lw 1 and her mother pathan shamshad begum lw 2 were present at that time.
lw 1lodged the report which was registered by sri k srinivasarao lw 16the sub inspector of police.
the fir was registered under section 304b and section 498a of the indian penal code1860 for short the ipc thereafter investigation was conducted by one shri p devadass lw 17 he inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
this was done in the presence of lw 10 and lw 11shaik ibrahim and mohd ghouse respectively.
thereupon the body was sent for postmortem examination through constable p venkateswara reddy lw 15 lw 17p devdass also took photographs of the scene 3 lw 13dr.
m madhusudana reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia as a result of hanging.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
they faced the trial and were convicted by learned sixth additional munsif magistrate guntur for committing an offence under sections 498a and 304b ipc.
they were committed to the court of sessions guntur division guntur for such an offence.
they faced the trial and the learned sessions judge vide its judgment dated 4th october2004 found them guilty of the said offences and punished them as follows hence a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo r i for three years and further sentenced to pay a fine of rs 1000 each total fine amount rs 3000 offence punishable u s 498 a ipc i d of the fine amount of rs 1000 to undergo si for 9 months.
the undergone remand period of a 1 to a 3 shall be set off u s 428 cr.
p c m o 1 shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
the unmarked property if any shall be destroyed after expiry of appeal time.
the judgment dated 4th october2004 passed by the learned trial court was challenged in appeal before the high court.
the high court of andhra pradesh vide its judgment dated 26th october2006while allowing the appeal in part convicted accused nos 1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences however acquitted accused no 3namely pathan khadar basha.
this witness has further specifically stated that the said accused treated his daughter in a proper manner for about two months.
the statement of this witness i e lw 1 is corroborated by lw 3 and lw 7.
it is stated by lw 3 that she knew all the accused persons as she was residing in the house of the accused and the deceased.
lw 7 stated on oath that he was present at the time of giving of dowry to the accused by the family of the deceased.
injuries were found to be antemortem in nature and the cause of death was stated to be asphyxia as a result of hanging.
february2003 the witnesses including lw 1 have stated that for the first few months they were happy but thereafter there were quarrels between the accused and the deceased.
12 explanation appended to section.
in the case of ashok kumar v state of haryana 2010 12 scc 350 2010 indlaw sc 502this court explained these terms in some elucidation and the effect of the deeming fiction appearing in the section as follows 11 the appellant was charged with an offence under section 304 b of the code.
in this actdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parents of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
from the above definition it is clear thatdowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly by one party to another by parents of either party to each other or any other person at before or at any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dower or mahr under the muslim personal law.
scc 424 1987 indlaw sc 28308 held that furnishing of a list of ornaments and other household articles such as refrigerator furniture and electrical appliances etc to the parents or guardians of the bride at the time of settlement of the marriage prima facie amounts to demand of dowry within the meaning of s 2 of the act.
raj gopal asawa20044 scc 470 2004 indlaw sc 205.
the courts have also taken the view that where the husband had demanded a specific sum from his father in law and upon not being given harassed and tortured the wife and after some days she died such cases would clearly fall within the definition of dowry under the act.
in our view the expression soon before her death can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
it is for the accused to show that the death of the deceased did not result from any cruelty or demand of dowry by the accused persons.
