March 22.
On August 2 1894 Raja of Jharia granted mukarrari lease of the coal and coal mining rights in 300 bighas of land in village Kujama to Satya Karan Banerjee and Girish Chandra Samanta.
On June 151900 his son Raja Durga Prasad Singh granted coal and coal 494 mining rights in respect of 400 bighas out of 592 bighas to one Jugal Kishore Lal.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal granted a lease of 96 bighas out of his 400 bighas to one D M Mathews.
bThat the area encroached upon by the defendants be ascertained and the defendants be directed to vacate the same.
cThat a permanent injunction be issued against the defendants restraining them from encroaching upon the plaintiffs  coal land and cutting and removing coal therefrom.
dThat an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiffs  coal land as also the quantity of the coal rendered unworkable be ascertained and a decree for the value thereof by way of damages be granted to the plaintiffs against the defendants.
The defendants denied that they had encroached upon the plaintiff   coal land and stated that the suit was barred by limitation.
On appeal the High Court of Patna accepted all the findings of the learned Subordinate Judge and dismissed the appeal.
It is common case that the southern boundary of the appellants  leasehold is conterminous with the northern boundary of the respondents  lease hold.
Learned counsel for the appellant contends that the said boundary should be fixed solely with reference to the boundaries given in the lease of 1894 whereas learned counsel for the respondents contends that no plan has been annexed to the said lease and therefore the boundary could more satisfactorily and definitely be fixed with reference to the plans annexed to the subsequent lease deeds executed in favour of the successors in interest of the appellant and the respondents.
On August 2 1894 Raja Jaimangal Singh executed the lease deed exhibit 1 in respect of 300 bighas in favour of the respondents  predecessor in interest.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
As the plan is a part of the lease deed it is clear from the plan that the northern boundary of the leasehold of Samanta is the said line.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal that is the predecessor in interest of the appellant demised a plot of 96 bighas carved out from his leasehold to Mathews under a deed exhibit C1.
Mathews in turn demised under exhibit D the said land of 96 bighas to Walji Khetan representing the appellant.
But a perusal of exhibit I shows that there is no reference in regard to the western boundary to revenue records.
No reliance can be placed upon the recitals in exhibit 1 as it is demonstrated that the extent given in respect of the western boundary is incorrect.
It is well settled that a map referred to in a lease should be treated as incorporated in the lease and as 499 forming part of the said document.
On appeal the High Court accepted the finding.
He denied that he had any knowledge of the said two facts.
But to say that no duty is cast upon the plaintiff even to allege the date when they had knowledge of the defendant s possession of the converted property and that the entire burden is on the defendant is contrary to the tenor of the article in the Limitation Act and also to the rules of evidence.
Appeal dismissed.
