The prosecution case in brief is that due to enmity the appellant caused injuries to Sheo Sahai who was sleeping in his cattle shed in village Bhadurpur Ghar with a sword at about mid night on the night between June 14 15 1960.
The appellant thereafter proceeded to the Canal Distributory at some distance from the village and had a bath there.
He alleged that one Paley Singh informed him about the murder of Sheo Sahai and asked him to go to the Police Station Ekdil and to inform the Station Officer orally about the murder.
The evidence led by the prosecution consisted of the evidence relating to motive to his extrajudicial confession to one Ujagar Singh when he was having a bath in the Canal to his purchasing the sword and to his delivering it at the police Station after he had dictated the report.
205 The learned Sessions Judge believed Ujagar Singh and acted on the extra judicial confession made by the appellant to him.
It relied on certain statements made by the appellant in his report dictated at the Police Station and considered those facts together with the motive and the evidence about the purchase of the sword sufficient to confirm the appellant s conviction and sentence.
The learned counsel for the appellant has argued that the entire report dictated by the appellant was inadmissible in evidence as its contents amounted to a confession of the offence by the appellant made to a Police Officer and that the evidence relied upon by the High Court was insufficient to establish that the appellant had murdered Sheo Sahai.
On the other hand learned Counsel for the respondent urged that the High Court was wrong in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s extra judicial confession and that the extra judicial confession together with the circumstances relied on by the High Court fully make out the prosecution case against the appellant.
It is therefore not necessary to rely on the admissions of the appellant in the report with respect to these facts deposed to by the various witnesses whose testimony has been rightly accepted.
We need also consider whether the facts that the accused had a motive to harm Sheo Sahai and that he had purchased a sword a day before the incident and deposited it stained with human blood at the Police Station on the night of the murder are sufficient to establish that it must be the appellant who committed the murder of Sheo Sahai or not as we are of opinion that the High Court erred in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s confessing to him that he had murdered Sheo Sahai.
To us it seems that in the middle of June when the chari and sugar cane crop would not have been very high it seems improbable that Ujagar Singh would have been sleeping in his field or that he should have met the appellant in the manner alleged.
