This is an appeal by special leave against an award dated September 20 1963 made by the Presiding Officer of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in a reference made by the Government of India under section 102 of the .
The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
Reference in this judgment will be made to the Prince s and Victoria Docks the Alexandra Docks Butcher Island and the Flotilla Crew.
From the facts appearing on the record it appears that the Trustees first introduced a two shift system of work in the Alexandra Docks on June 30 1953 and the same system was extended to the Prince s and Victoria Docks on December 15 1953.
Previously the shore crew at all these places worked in a single shift and were liable to be called out at 634 any hour of the day or night.
In 1956 the workmen who were then represented by the Port Trust General Workers  Union made a demand for a fixed recess of two hours.
The General Workers Union was informed that if the demand was pressed a three shift system would be introduced.
The workmen then retraced their steps and accepted a 2 hours  variable recess but requested that it should be as near the middle of the shift as possible.
The Trustees agreed to accept the hours of rest at fixed hours in the Alexandra Docks but at the Prince s and Victoria Docks they kept it variable agreeing to fix it as near the middle of the duty hours as possible.
In explanation of this difference it may be pointed out that the Alexandra Docks work on a system of lock gates which enables the depth of water at the docks to be artificially regulated but the Prince s and Victoria Docks being tidal work only at high tide.
It was thus possible to fix rest hours at the Alexandra Docks for half the crew different from the rest hours of the other half so that a part of the crew was always available on hand.
As the lock gates control the depth of water in the Alexandra Docks fixed hours of rest could be maintained from day to day except in the monsoon months when the storm gates had some time to be closed.
During these months recess time at the Alexandra Docks was also variable and was made to coincide with the closure of the storm gates.
The workmen at the Alexandra Docks seemed to have accepted a variable recess of two hours but the Port Trust gave a notice under section 9A of the on June 25 1960 announcing the introduction of variable recess although in the months other than the monsoon months recess was actually at fixed hours.
The workmen opposed the change from fixed to variable recess.
Meanwhile studies were being made and it was found that the work hours at the different Docks were not equal they were heavier at the Alexandra Docks than at the other docks.
The Trustees therefore resolved that the shore crew at the Alexandra Docks should work for 8 hours and that there should be a variable recess of one hour and overtime of three hours should be paid.
Thus the 12 hours  shift at the Alexandra Docks was 8 hours  of duty 3 hours  overtime and one hour variable recess.
At these docks 8 hours  duty 2 hours  rest at variable times and 2 hours  overtime were prescribed.
The claim of the shore crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks and Butcher Island for reducing the hours of rest and increasing overtime to three hours was not accepted because the amount of work in the opinion of the Trustees did not justify the change.
The Union contended that this division of 12 hours  shift into 8 hours  work 2 hours  rest and 2 hours  overtime violated the provisions of the and that the so called period of rest was illusory since being variable it was some times given right at the commencement of the shift and some times at the end depending on the tides or the exigencies of the work.
The Union claimed that a 12 hours  shift should be divided into 8 hours  work and 4 hours  overtime as was the case with the Flotilla Crew.
They contended that regard being had to the number of actual work hours the case of shore crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks and the Butcher Island could not be compared with that of the crew at the Alexandra Docks or the Flotilla Crew.
The Tribunal accepted the entire case put forward on behalf of the Trustees and the Union has appealed to this Court.
On behalf of the Union the learned Solicitor General has argued the case almost entirely from the legal stand point and has attempted to establish that the break up of a 12 hours  shift into 8 hours  duty 2 hours  rest and 2 hours  overtime offends the .
He has in addition submitted that the system of variable recess does not satisfy the requirements of rest which is the basis for fixing statutorily the hours of work in relation to wages.
The was enacted to enable Government to fix minimum rates of wages in certain employments.
On the other hand the Act and the Rules fix the number of hours of work payment of overtime and for hours of rest in the work day of the workman.
The hours of work and the payment of overtime are therefore governed by the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages Central Rules 1950 and the controversy in this case must be appreciated and resolved in accordance with them.
We shall now turn to these provisions.
1 In regard to any scheduled employment minimum rates of wages in respect of which have been fixed under this Act the appropriate Government may a fix the number of hours of work which shall constitute a normal working day inclusive of one or more specified intervals b provide for a day of rest in every period Of seven days which shall be allowed to all employees or to any specified class of em ployees and for the payment of remuneration in respect of such days of rest c provide for payment of work on a day of rest at a rate not less than the overtime rate.
1 Where an employee whose minimum rate of wages is fixed under this Act by the hour by the day or by such a longer wage period as may be prescribed works on any day in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate fixed under this Act or under any law of the appropriate Government for the time being in force whichever is higher.
Number of hours of work which shall constitute a normal working day 1 The number of hours which shall constitute a normal working day shall be a in the case of an adult 9 hours b in the case of a child 41 hours.
There is no definition of interval either in the Act or the Rules but the provisions of section 13 2 c read with section 13 3 give us an indication of what is meant by an interval of rest.
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work which cannot exceed 9 is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
From section 13 read with Rule 24 we know that the number of hours constituting a normal working day is 9.
He can specify the intervals of rest and spread the 8 hours or 9 hours as the case may be together with intervals of rest over 12 hours in a twelvehour shift.
For the hours of rest he is not required to pay overtime but he must specify those hours.
As in the present case the total number of hours of work in a week is 48 8 hours per day for 6 days overtime is payable for that hour or part of an hour beyond the 8 hours in which the workman is either made to work or the interval is not specified.
According to their resolution the recess is fixed as near the middle of the work as possible depending on the tides.
