5348 of the Desai award.
1 As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
5356 of the Desai award we may set out the two paragraphs in parallel columns for comparison Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision For workmen who enterd service of the bank before 31st January 1950 1.
1 Desai award For workmen who entered service of the bank before 1st January 1959 i The workman s basic pay as on January 1 1959 shall not be reduced in any case.
3In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing or in the scales fixed by us should be ignored.
b To the basic pay into which he is fitted under cl.
a the annual increments in the new scale as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of service in the same cadre as on 31st January 1950 up to a limit of 12 years  service hereafter one increment for every four years of service up to another 8 years service and after that one increment for every five years of service.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
iii In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing scales or in the scales provided by the Sastry award as modified should be ignored.
ivSubject to rules i to iii a workman s basic pay in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified shall be fixed in the following manner aA workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay of Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale as modified equal to or next above his basic pay as on 1st January 1959 in the scale then in force in the bank concerned hereinafter called the Bank s scale.
bTo the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause a annual increment or increment in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
d After adjustments are made in accordance with clauses ab and c supra two further annual increments.
d of cl.
iv of para 5356 of the Desai award was separated by the Labour Appellate Tribunal Decision from cl.
 The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present case was this.
ii of the Desai award the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1 1962.
ii and cl.
ii no further increments even under sub cl.
ii the adjusted basic pay is to be as on January 1 1962.
ii is subject to cl.
b read with sub cl.
iv but this will be subject to cls.
iv and cl.
b read with sub cl.
i and ii.
d of cl.
d cannot be permitted in view of cl.
But as we have held that in cl.
d of cl.
iv will take effect and give two annual increments for 1960 and 1961 which are beyond the date which we have accepted as the right date for purposes of cl.
ii has to be worked out as on January 1 1959 the two increments provided by sub cl.
d of cl.
a b and c of el.
iv of the Desai award.
a b and c of el.
iv in accordance with what we have interpreted these sub clauses as well as cls.
d must always be given.
b read with sub cl.
292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision.
b and c of cl.
iv because he was getting more than what would be his adjusted basic pay under cl.
