P Ram Reddy and A V Rangam for the appellant.
R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
The respondent purchased by a registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the name All India Trading Company.
The Sales tax authorities attempted to recover the arrears of tax from the respondent as the purchaser of the business.
The respondent 6 63 denied liability to pay sales tax but his contention was over ruled by the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer.
Ganapatia Pillai J who heard the petition dismissed it.
Rule 21 A was framed by the State Government under the rule making power granted to it under section 191 and 2 of the Act.
 Section 19  1  and 1 9 2 c are to the following effect 19.
1 The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
2 In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may provide for c the assessment to tax under this Act of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed 664 The first question to be considered in this appeal is whether Rule 21 A is intra vires of the power of the State Government under sections 191 and 2 of the Act.
Section 31 of the Act is the charging section.
It imposes a liability to pay sales tax on every dealer for each year and the tax is to be calculated on his total turnover for that year.
Section 2b of the Act defines a dealer as a person who carries on the business of buying selling .
It is manifest that a person who purchases a business as a dealer  can be assessed to sales tax only in respect of his turnover and under the scheme of the charging provision of the Act the purchaser of the business has nothing to do with the sales effected by the seller of the business.
By the amending Act of 1959 Act 1 of 1959 an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
But there is no such provision in the Act for the period with which we are concerned in the present case.
The question is whether the State Government has authority under its rule making power under section 19 of the Act to create a legal fiction by which the transferee of the business is constituted as the dealer liable to pay the tax in respect of the turnover of the transferor.
On behalf of the appellants Mr Ram Reddy suggested that the State Government has power under section 191 and 192 c of the Act to frame the impugned rule.
Section 191 of the Act empowers the State Government to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Act but the section cannot be utilised to enlarge the scope of section 10 regarding recovery and payment of tax from some other person other than a dealer under the Act.
Section 192c deals with the assessment to tax of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed.
2  665 Whitney vs Commissioners of Inland Revenue that the liability to tax does not depend upon assessment.
The liability is definitely created by sections 3 and 4 of the Income tax Act which are the charging sections and the assessment order under section 23 only quantifies the liability which has already been definitely and finally created by the charging sections and the provision in regard to assessment relates only to the machinery of taxation.
It follows therefore that Rule 21 A is beyond the rule making power of the State Government either under section 191 or section 192c of the Act.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
In the present case the business which was transferred to the respondent was hence charged with the payment of sales tax and it was open to sales tax authorities to proceed against the assets of the business for realising the amount of sales tax due.
In our opinion there is no justification for this argument.
 This section was amended by section 8 of the Madras General Sales tax 3rd amendment Act 1956 which reads as follows 1 666 Substitution of new section for section 10 in Madras Act IX of 1939.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act  .
 In the present case the Act is not expressed to come into operation on any particular date but as it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8 1956 the Act came into operation on that date and not before.
It was however disputed by Mr Ganapathy Iyer on behalf of the respondent that there was any undertaking on the part of the respondent to discharge the liabilities in regard to arrears of sales tax.
