It is a partnership firm.
For the assessment year 1960 61 relevant to the accounting year 1959 60 after the assessee submitted its income tax return it was asked by the Income tax Officer during the income tax assessment proceedings to produce before him its books of account and the other relevant papers.
In that statement it gave the lull names and address of the alleged creditors.
Income Tax Officer Muzaffarpur Dated the 3 6 1966.
I therefore propose to re assess the income for the said assessment year and I hereby require you to deliver to me within 30 days from the date of service of this notice a return in the prescribed form of your income The income assessable relevant to the assessment year 1960 61 of in respect of which you are assessable for the said assessment year.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 1512 of the Act we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
In this case the notice was issued after four years but before eight years of the date of the original assessment.
2 The Income tax Officer shall before issuing any notice under this section record his reasons for doing so.
Hereinbelow we have sent out the report of the Income tax Officer as well as the order of the Commissioner Report in Connection with the starting of proceeding under Section 147 of the Income tax Act 1951.
Income tax Officer A Ward Muzaffarpur.
 In his report the Income tax Officer does not set out any reason for coming to the conclusion that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
All that he says is that from those communications it appears that these persons alleged creditors are name lenders and the transactions are bogus.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee s omission to disclose fully and truly all material  facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
b of section 147.
GC Appeal allowed.
