b To encourage friendly feeling end unanimity among business community and association on all subjects connected with the common good of Indian business.
c To secure organised action on all subjects mentioned above.
d To collect and disseminate statistical and other information and to make effort for the spread of commercial and economic knowledge.
e To take all steps by lawful means which may be necessary for promoting supporting or opposing legislation or other action affecting the aforesaid economic interests and in general to take the initiative to assist and promote trade commerce and industry.
fTo provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising in the course of trade industry or transport or other business matters and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
g To conduct undertake the conduct of and participate in national and international exhibitions.
h To set up museums or show rooms to exhibit the products of India and other countries and to participate in such activities.
1 To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
m To help in the Organisation of Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations in different commercial centres of the country.
n O p q r s t u v x y To sell or dispose of the undertaking of the Federation or any part thereof for such consideration as the Federation may think fit and in particular for shares debentures or securities of any other association or company having objects altogether or in similar to those of the Federation.
z To take or otherwise acquire and hold shares in any other association or company having objects altogether or in part similar to those of the Federation.
  Shop means any premises where goods are sold either by retail or wholesale Or where services are rendered to customers and includes an office a stoic room godown warehouse or workhouse or work place whether in the same premises or otherwise used in or in connection with such trade or business but does not include a factory or commercial establishment.
 It will be seen that while the definition of establishment includes a shop  and commercial establishment the definitions of shop  and commercial establishment  are mutually exclusive.
 Mr Pai further maintains that the ratio in R K Mittal s case supra is not applicable to the instant case because the definition of  industry in section 2j of the is far wider than that of commercial establishment in section 25 of the Act.
