Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 14 6 1967 of the Mysore High Court in Writ Petition No 44065.
Mrs Shyamala Pappu and Girish Chandra for the Appellant.
1 where this Court had held upon a concession by the Attorney General that a list prepared under Section 115 of the  hereinafter referred to as the Act  was provisional.
He is a respondent who has not appeared before us and therefore could not be heard by us.
 It is apparent that the petitioner re spondent was claiming relief against the final Inter State seniority list although he was given due opportunity to object to the provi sional list.
In the case before us the petitioner admits that the Mysore State Civil Services Integration Rules provided for filing of objections against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniori ty list.
Presumably he had that opportunity.
His grievance seemed to be that he was not heard after the final list was prepared.
We are unable to appreciate.
Hence the principle recognised in Shankariah s case supra was not applicable to such a case.
 1 from which learned Counsel thought the following observations could perhaps be cited on behalf of the petitioner respondent at p 202 it was argued by Mr Ashoke Sen that in regard to both these matters the respond ents have a right of representation and the final gradation list should have been pub lished after giving them further oppor tunity to make a representation.
But the extent and applicationof the doctrine of natural justice cannot be imprisoned within the straight jacket of a rigid formula.
All that is done is that certain principles are applied in the preparation of the list.
If he was to have that opportunity the list would not really be final but only provisional or preliminary.
It was an opportunity to be given before the final list was to be declared and published as a final list.
It has also to give a full and fair opportuni ty to the parties affected to make their representations and the Central Government has also to give a proper consideration to those representations.
It was also held there at p 2106 It is no doubt true that the Central Government must have due regard to the princi ples enunciated by it in consultation with the States for the purpose of equation Of posts.
