In the view we have taken about the merits of the petition it is not necessary for us to consider the question of its maintainability after the dismissal of the petition under article 226 or to make any pronouncement on this occasion on the scope and ambit of article 32 of the Constitution in that situation.
a Section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act which is impugned before us runs as follows 46.
In view of the decision of this Court in the State of Punjab vs Ajaib Singh  Another1 this objection has not been pressed before us and we need say no more about it.
In this case the assessee has been arrested and is being detained in jail in execution of a warrant of arrest issued under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of the demand certified under section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act.
As long as those sec tions stand no complaint can be made of infringement of article 21 for those two sections constitute a procedure established by law.
It is next said that the proviso to the sub section invests the Collector with all the powers a Civil Court has under the Code of Civil Procedure for the purpose of the recovery of the amount due under a decree.
All that the sub section directs the Collector to do is to proceed to recover the certified amount as if it were an arrear of land revenue that is to say he is to adopt the procedure prescribed by the appropriate law of his State for the recovery of land revenue and that in thus proceeding he is under the proviso to have all the powers a Civil Court has under the Code.
In our opinion the proviso does not indicate a different and alternative mode of recovery of the certified amount of tax but only confers additional powers on the Collector for the better and more effective application of the only mode of recovery authorised by the body of sub section 2 of section 46.
All that it says is that the certified amount of income tax is to be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue and there its operation ends.
In such a situation it is a plausible argument to say that all the provisions of all the State laws are mutatis mutandis to be read into section 46 2 and that therefore if there be any vice of discrimination in the State laws that vice cannot but be regarded as having crept into section 462.
Each State in its wisdom has devised a machinery which it has considered appropriate and suitable for the recovery of its own public demand.
The same or similar considerations apply to both cases.
A cursory perusal of the two sections will show at once that the procedure prescribed by section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of arrears of land revenue was harsher and more drastic than the procedure laid down in section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code 1879 in that a defaulter residing in the City of Bombay could be kept in detention for a day for every rupee of the arrears which might considerably exceed the maximum period of six months which is the period 904 limited by the Code of Civil Procedure for the detention of a judgment debtor in civil jail.
In the view we have taken it is not necessary to express any opinion whether the discrimination brought about by the two sections was supportable on the ground of a reasonable classification based on territorial considerations so as not to offend the constitutional inhibition.
In Assam there can be no imprisonment at all.
