That section reads thus 6.
Explanation 2.
Nothing contained in the proviso to this section shall be construed as enabling a person who has separated himself from the coparcenary before the death of the deceased or any of his heirs to claim on intestacy a share in the interest referred to therein.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
Explanation 1 which contains the formula for determining the share of the deceased creates a fiction by providing that the interest of a Hindu Mistakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death.
see Mulla s Hindu Law Fourteenth Edition page 403 para 315.
Khandappa would have therefore got a 14th share in the coparcenary property on the hypothesis of a partition between himself and his sons Two things are thus clears  One that in a partition of the coparcenary property Khandappa would have obtained a 14th share and 767 two that the share of the plaintiff in the 14th share is 16th that is to say 124th.
It was held in that case that the fiction that the failure to send an estimate of tax on income under section 18A3 is to be deemed to be a failure to send a return necessarily involves the fiction that a notice had been issued to the assessee under section 22 and that he had failed to comply with it.
1 SCR 394 2 768 incidents which if the putative state of affairs had in fact existed must inevitably have flowed from or accompanied it and if the statute says that you must imagine a certain state of affairs it cannot be interpreted to mean that having done so you must cause or permit your imagination to boggle when it comes to the inevitable corollaries of that state of affairs.
For by doing that alone can one determine the extent of the claimant s share.
In other words the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
It has to be treated and accepted as a concrete reality something that cannot be recalled just as a share allotted to a coparcener in an actual partition cannot generally be recalled.
1937 speaking broadly conferred upon the Hindu widow the right to a share in the joint family property as also a right to demand partition like any male member of the family.
Even assuming that two interpretations of Explanation I are reasonably possible we must prefer that interpretation which will further the intention of the legislature and remedy the injustice from which the Hindu women have suffered over the years.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
2 AIR 1974 Guj.
3 AIR 1967 Orissa 194.
