 Criminal Appeal No 133 of 1975.
Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
365 The deceased Subhadramma was the wife of the appellant.
After the ninth day the mother and child according to customary practice were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
After about one and a half months the accused asked his mother in law and brother in law to send his wife to his place.
After dinner all of them went to sleep.
When the Police officers went to the village they 366 found the accused tied to a pole.
After holding the inquest the dead body was sent for postmortem examination.
After completing the investigation the Police laid a chargesheet against the accused and he was duly tried.
They insulted him.
He felt giddy and was about to lose consciousness.
He commented on the failure of the Police to seize the mat or bedding on which the deceased was sleeping.
He referred to the evidence of me Doctor who stated that the injury found on the deceased could have been caused even if she was standing.
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 pm was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P 15 the wound certificate given by PW 13 the Medical officer in respect of the injuries which he found on the person of the accused.
He also contended that two views were possible on the evidence and the accused was entitled to the benefit of doubt.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P W 1 and himself.
He probably attributed the refusal to reluctance on the part of his wife to accompany him straightaway.
At one time it was thou ht that an order of acquittal could be set aside for substantial and compelling reasons only and Courts used to launch on a search to discover those substantial and compelling reasons.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
But fanciful and remote possibilities must be left out of account.
