A K Sen and G L Sanghi Vineet Kumar and Devinder Gupta for the Appellant.
J Sorabjee K K Venugopal and R P Bhatt for respondent in 2611 A81.
No order as to costs of hearing in this Court.
ALL interim orders passed by this Court shall stand vacated from the midnight between 15th and 16th November 1982.
Reasons will follow.
From Annexure B it would appear that the permission so granted was in favour of Ved Ved Gupta in his individual capacity and not as the representative of any firm.
In the meantime by a deed dated December 7 1966 which was registered on December 24 1966 the plot in question was taken on lease jointly by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar for a period of 40 years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
By a subsequent agreement executed by the 14 partners on February 22 1969 the name of the Cinema business was changed from Metro Theatre  to Apsara Theatre.
Annexure C is a copy of the said application and it shows that it was filed by Ved Gupta in his personal capacity without any mention whatever therein of the partnership.
Annexure D is a copy of the said licence and it is expressly stated therein that the said licence has been granted to Shri Ved Gupta and that it shall remain in force until March 31 1970 provided that Shri Ved Gupta or any person to whom with the consent of the licensing authority the licence is transferred continues to own or manage the cinematographs used ill the said Apsara Theatre.
A Schedule of conditions imposing various duties and obligations on the licensee is also appended to the said licence.
On March 31 1970 two partners Todar Mal and Sham Kumar retired from the partnership.
A copy 581 of the said letter was sent by Krishan Kumar to Ved Gupta also.
Notice of the said application was issued by the District Magistrate to Shri Ved Gupta and the District Magistrate conducted an enquiry at which both sides were heard through their advocates.
Krishan Kumar was impleaded as a second respondent in that appeal.
He filed a writ petition in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir challenging the legality and validity of the orders passed by the District Magistrate and the appellate authority namely the State Government.
Krishan Kumar was made a party respondent in the said petition.
That writ petition was dismissed in limine by the High Court by an order dated April 29 1978.
Krishan Kumar was a party respondent in the Special Leave Petition also.
Annexure I Before the said order was passed by the District Magistrate an elaborate hearing appears to have been given by him to Krishan Kumar and Ved Gupta represented by their Advocates.
It is seen from Annexure I that the contentions advanced before the District Magistrate on behalf of Krishan Kumar were that even though the licence had originally been issued in the name of Ved Gupta the right of operation of the licence had become the 582 property of the firm by virtue of clauses 13 and 18 of the partnership deed and since Ved Gupta had been expelled from the partnership and had thereby ceased to be connected with the firm he did not have the possession of the premises and he was not entitled to claim a renewal of the licence.
In March 1980 the licence for the Theatre was renewed by the District Magistrate in the name of Ved Gupta.
On April 27 1979 a suit was instituted against Ved Gupta and seven others by seven of the partners including Krishan Kumar for a declaration that the Cinema licence dated July 22 1969 issued by the District Magistrate Jammu 8th defendant for exhibition of cinematographs in the building known as Apsara Theatre Gandhi Nagar Jammu is the property of the firm Apsara Theatre and for a prohibitory injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 namely Shri Ved Gupta and six of the partners who were residing with him from interfering with the running of the Cinema by the plaintiffs and also for a prohibitory injunction against the District Magistrate defendant 8 restraining him from interfering in any manner with the exhibition by the plaintiffs of cinematographs in the premises of Apsara Theatre.
On the date of the institution itself the District Judge Jammu issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
On 583 September 26 1980 the Superintendent of Police Jammu City reported to District Magistrate that on verification by the Sub Inspector deputed for the purpose it had been found that the cinematographs were being conducted in the Apsara Theatre by persons other than the licensee and the Police had challaned the licensee under Section 6 of the Act.
Acting on the aforesaid material brought to his notice the District Magistrate passed the order Annexure J dated September 26 1980 directing that exhibition of cinematographic films in Apsara Theatre will remain suspended until further orders.
16980 has intimated that there was exhibition of films on 25th September 1980 in Apsara Theatre by persons other than the licensee And whereas under the provisions of the Cinematograph Act read with rules none other than licensee is permitted to exhibit films during the currency of the licence without permission of the licensing authority Now therefore I A Sahasranaman District Magistrate Jammu hereby order that exhibition of films in Apsara Theatre will remain suspended till further orders.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
Although we entertain very serious doubts about the correctness of the view taken by the Division Bench of the High Court regarding the applicability of Rule 23 3 to the instant case we do not feel called upon to examine the said question in depth or to pronounce upon it in this case in view of the conclusion arrived at by us on the merits of the case that the conclusions recorded by the Acting Chief Justice on the points that arose for decision in the Letters Patent Appeal cannot be legally sustained and that there was no justification for interference by the Division Bench with the judgment of the learned Single Judge dismissing the writ petition.
In this connection it is relevant to refer to Rule 88v.
