Civil Appeals Nos.
1264 6771 etc.
DK Sen Gopal Subramonium and RN Poddar for the Appellant.
Ex parte for the Respondents.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus 28.
Further the section does not provide nor is any rule brought to our notice which enjoins upon the Administrator to give a hearing to dealer who seeks permission under this Section and give reasons in case he decides to refuse the permission.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
It cannot be disputed that sec.
In other words the several restrictions that have been put on the activities of the traders doing business in gold will have to be viewed from the aforesaid perspective.
It is also clear that the restrictions which have been imposed in sec.
28 are meant to prevent the circumvention of other provisions of the Act.
Therefore in our view the objective the policy and the Scheme of the Act together with the necessity to ensure prevention of circumvention of the other provisions of the Act afford more than sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising the power of discretion conferred on him under sec.
In fact sec.
Moreover regard must be had to be the nature of the restrictions imposed by the Section.
Having regard to this position which obtains in the case sec.
We may indicate that the same provision section 28 was challenged before the Patna High Court in Bihar State Bullion Merchants  Association vs Union of lndia1 and the Gujarat High Court in Ramanlal Purshottamamdas Chokshi vs Union of India  Others 2 and these High Courts have upheld its validity.
We approve the view taken in those cases As regards the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court in Harakchand Banthia s case supra while declaring unamended sec.
276 in several of its clauses referred to certain concepts which Administrator was required to take into account and these concepts were regarded as indefinite uncertain and vague.
e and public interest  in cl.
276 this Court struck down sec.
No such vague or indefinite expressions or concepts are to be found in sec.
28 by reference to which the Administrator is required to exercise his power.
In the absence of parity of situation or circumstances the doctrine of parity of reasoning cannot be invoked.
The appeal succeeds but since the respondents have not appeared there will be no order as to costs.
SR Appeal allowed.
