Appeal No 1713NT of 1973.
From the.
Not present  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
It appears further that copies of this letter were sent to one Om Prakash Gupta and Ved Prakash Gupta.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee his father for the gift of Rs25000 made to him and Rs50000 gifted to his son.
It must be mentioned however that the company ie Messrs Tika Ram and Sons.
It was also stated to be carrying on business of advancing money and taking money on loan when necessary.
But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
Gift is defined in section 122 of the as transfer of certain existing mova ble or immovable property made voluntarily and without consideration by 126 one person called the donor to another called the donee and accepted by or on behalf of the donee.
34 and 5 were answered in the negative.
Aggrieved by the said decision the revenue has come up in appeal.
In order to constitute a valid gift there must be an existing property.
In case of entries in the books of ac count by credit and debit the sums should be available on the date of gift in the account of the firm whose accounts are said to be credited or debited.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
But in the cases of non banking companies or firms if these companies or firms do not have overdraft facilities it is not possible to make valid gift if sums or funds are not available.
But in such cases 127 merely books entries would not suffice.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
He had large assets but these were represented by land buildings plant machinery and stock in trade.
Interest on the amounts was also credited in the accounts regularly for some time until a bank from which C had obtained an overdraft objected to such crediting of interest.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
Balance of the firm was only Rs 15.
In Commissioner of Wealth Tax vs Gulab Rai Govind Pra sad there was an alleged gift of Rs2 lakhs to minor son by book entries.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
As the respondent is not appearing there will be no order as to costs.
