1955 there were more than 200 insur ers carrying on life insurance business in India.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers with a few exceptions were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
4 Notwithstanding anything contained in the 14 of 1947 or in any other 191 law for the time being in force the transfer of the serv ices of any employee of an insurer to the Corporation shall not entitle any such employee to any compensation under that Act or other law and no such claim shall be entertained by any Court tribunal or other authority.
Doubts arose as regards the meaning of sub section 2 of section of the Act.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
An employee shall retire at fifty five years of age provided that the appointing authority may at its discretion extend the service every year upto 60 years of age.
Explanation Notwithstanding anything contained in this Regulation where an employee has privilege leave earned but not availed of as on the date of retirement as prescribed in the above Regulation he may be permitted to avail of the leave and in that case the employee will be deemed to retire from service at the expiry of the leave.
 The above regulation fixed the age of retirement of an employee at 55 years while empowering the authority to extend the service of an employee at its discretion every year upto 60 years of age.
Clause 13 of the above Order which related to the age of superannuation read as follows 13.
But the Corporation may require any employee who has attained the age of 55 to retire if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
 Clause 13 of the above Order therefore modified regu lation 21 of the Staff Regulations 1956 to the extent indicated therein with effect from the commencement of the Corporation.
After the promulgation of the Order the trans ferred employees to whom it applied were entitled to contin ue in the service of the Corporation till they attained the age of 60 years subject to the Corporation exercising its powers to retire a transferred employee on his attaining the age of 55 years if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
As regards the trans ferred officers belonging to the Class II category 196 namely the Field Officers a standardisation order was made under sub section 2 of section 11 of the Act on 30th December 1957.
Clause 6 of that order originally read as follows 6.
As regards retirement the Government has mentioned that the Department of Expenditure has objected to raising the date of superannuation to 58 years of age on the ground that other statutory Corporations are also demanding the same benefit on the analogy of the Life Insurance Corporation s proposal.
As regards new recruits it was thought that there was no justification to bring down the retirement age from 60 to 55 all of a sudden nor was it considered necessary to maintain any distinction between officers and staff.
All the employees have often represented that the age of retirement should be raised to 60.
 After the matter was duly considered by the Services and the Budget Committee and by the Corporation regulations were framed under clauses b and bb of section 492 of the Act prescribing the ages of retirement of the employees of the Corporation belonging to different categories with the previous approval of the Central Government and were incorporated in the Staff Regulations 1960 made by the Corporation which came into effect on July 1 1960.
Regula tion 19 of the Staff Regulations 1960 dealt with the subject of superannuation and retirement of the employees of the Corporation.
A transferred employee shall retire on completion of age 60 but the appointing authority may direct such employ ee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been im paired.
2 An employee appointed to the service of the 198 Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
All the transferred employees were entitled to remain in service till they completed 60 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such transferred employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
An employee belonging to Class III or Class IV and a transferred employee belonging to Class I or Class II shall retire on completion of age 60 but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
2 An employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been im paired.
All the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV irrespective of the fact whether they were transferred employees or employees appointed after 1st September 1956 were entitled to continue in service till 60 years of age but the employees belonging to Class I and Class II who were appointed to the service of the Corpora tion on or after 1st September 1956 had to retire on the completion of 58 years of age subject to the usual clause relating to premature retirement.
Hence he was not retired on the 30th June 1984 as originally notified and allowed to continue in service.
 It has to be observed in the case before us also that the transferred employees belong to a diminishing cadre.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
Clause b however provided that every ministerial railway serv ant who had entered the Government service on or before 31st March 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned either in sub clause i or sub clause ii thereof was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years.
As may be seen from that rule the classification of the employees was made on the basis of the date of entry into the service of the Government.
