Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
He has assailed that order for retirement and has claimed payment of remuneration which he would have been entitled to draw upto the normal date of superannuation.
1954 and came to be confirmed as Section Officer by an order dated 8101955.
 The impugned notice ran thus No 3245266 EC.
Sd VR .
 It is clear from it that the petitioner attained the age of 50 years on 1021972 and therefore on the date of the order he had completed the age of 54 years.
Admittedly he was holding a class II post when the impugned order was served on him.
1954 and contin ued to hold that post when the order of compulsory retire ment was passed.
As already indicated above he had crossed the age of 50 years but had not attained the age of 55 years by the date of the impugned order.
It has been argued before us that as the petitioner was holding an officiating appointment in Class 117 he could not have been compulsorily retired under sub clause i.
In short an officiating Govern ment servant does not really belong to Class I or Class II service until he acquires a right thereon.
Even viewed closely and meticulously the structure of the clause namely if he is in Class I or Class II 637 service or post emphasises the nature of the service or post vis a vis the Government servant concerned.
But the correct ness thereof is disputed by learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India and that is why this writ petition was directed to be heard by a larger Bench.
A person can be in Class I or Class II service or post even when he hold a post of either class substantively or temporarily or on officiating basis.
If the condi tion indicated in sub clause i is satisfied namely the Government servant is in Class I or Class II service or post and he had entered into service before attaining the age of 35 years and has attained the age of fifty the further condition that he must substantively belong to the two classes of service or post cannot be introduced into the scheme.
Even if the writ petition is allowed and the order of compulsory retirement is set aside the petitioner cannot go back to service.
