The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SEN J.
The by section 630 enacts 630.
2 The Court trying the offence may also order such officer or employee to deliver up or refund within a time F to be fixed by the Court any such property wrongfully obtained or wrongfully withheld or knowingly misapplied or in default to suffer imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years.
The controversy is as to the meaning of the term officer or employee  used in sub s1 of section 630 and as to the meaning of the words any such property  in cl.
b thereof and there is a conflict of opinion between the High Courts of Calcutta and Bombay on the question.
It also held that the words any such property  in section 630lb relate to property specified in cl.
It is also of the view that the words any such property  in ck b qualify the words any property of a company  appearing in cl.
That has been the consistent view taken by the High Court of Bombay in a series of cases.
See Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh  Anr  Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi  Anr  which have since been followed in a series of cases referred to by the learned Single Judge Ashok Agarwal J.
As the respondent Shipping Corporation of India a public sector undertakings was in dire need of the flat in question which is situate in a posh locality like the Cuffe Parade in 173 Bombay for the use of its senior executive we could not accede to the request of the learned counsel for the petitioner to refer the case to a bench of three judges and heard learned counsel for the parties at quit some length on August 271987 and dismissed the special leave petition.
The reasons therefor follow.
At the very threshold it is necessary to set out a few facts.
The petitioner Baldev Krishan Sahi was an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping  Transport and on May 21 1974 accepted employment as Joint Manager in the Mogul Line Limited a Government of India undertaking after obtaining release from government service.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
The petitioner retired from the service of the company on or about September 30 1984.
Prior to that ie On September 26 1984 he addressed a letter requesting the company to permit him to continue to live in the company s premises during the period of his accumulated leave after his retirement ie for a period of six months undertaking to vacate the flat as early as possible.
It appears that the company on humanitarian grounds acceded to this request and permitted the petitioner to stay on in the company s flat for six months after his retirement and in accordance with the company s rules he was required to pay compensation for the use of the premises.
After the expiry of the said period of six months the company addressed a letter dated April 26 1985 requesting the petitioner to vacate the premises stating that if he failed to do so he would be liable to pay higher compensation as per the company s rules.
Since the petitioner failed to vacate the flat the company initiated proceedings for his eviction under the Public Premises Eviction of Unauthorised occupants Act 1971.
The Estate officer by order dated December 2 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
The petitioner carried an appeal to the City Civil  Sessions Court Bombay but the same was dismissed by the Principal Judge City Civil Court by his order dated January 16 1986.
He then preferred a revision to the High Court and the High Court by its order dated January 28 1986 allowed the same set aside the eviction order and directed the Estate officer to give a personal hearing to the petitioner.
Instead of availing of that opportunity the petitioner on March 3 1986 moved the High Court by a petition under article 226 of the Constitution and obtained ad interim stay of the proceedings before the Estate officer.
A few days thereafter ie On March 7 1986 the petitioner instituted a suit being Civil Suit No 174 138286 in Small Causes Court Bombay seeking a declaration that he was a tenant of the disputed flat which is now pending.
The learned Magistrate by his order dated May 22 1986 took cognizance of the complaint against the petitioner and directed issue of process.
On June 30 1986 the company merged with the Shipping Corporation of India and all its assets and liabilities were taken over by the Corporation.
The Corporation in the counter affidavit interalia has pleaded that there is acute shortage of housing accommodation in the Metropolitan City of Bombay and it becomes necessary for the Corporation with a view to attract good talent to provide suitable housing accommodation to its officers and employees and that due to acute financial liquidity it is not possible for the Corporation to buy property in Bombay for this purpose.
It is further pleaded that the petitioner was given the flat for his residence during the period of his employment and that he was bound to vacate the same after his retirement.
The first and foremost argument of learned counsel for the petitioner is that the provision contained in section 630 of the Act is a penal provision and therefore must be subject to a strict construction and there is no room for intendment.
b does not stand by itself but is inter connected with cl.
The entire argument of the learned counsel is based upon the judgment of the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum s case.
wrongfully withholds possession of it after the termination of his employment.
a and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees it may also take in past officers and employees.
It would be noticed that cl.
b also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
a into cl.
There is also no warrant for the construction placed by the High Court of Calcutta on the words any such property  occurring in cl.
b as applicable to such property of a company possession of which is wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company ie refers to the whole of cl.
b was wide enough to include former or past officer or employee of the company inasmuch as on a plain reading of the section the two clauses do not permit different interpretations as suggested.
b as taking in the property mentioned in cl.
He had been allotted the premises of a flat approximately 3500 square feet in area located at Mayfair Gardens Little Gibbs Road Bombay.
The question was whether such wrongful retention of the flat amounted to an offence under section 63 of the Act.
b even though cls.
a and b are separated by the word or  which must in the context in which it appears be read as and  and so construed must mean withholding of property wrongfully obtained by an existing officer or employee.
On a careful analysis of section 630 held that the provisions of the section apply not only to the present officers and employees of the company but also to past officers and employees and observed It is held that the features and deductions which flow logically and inescapably on an analysis of section 630 are that i Clause a of the section is self contained and independent of cl.
a as regards penal consequences squarely covering the case of a past employee or officer.
iii The entitlement of an officer to the property of the company is contingent on the right and capacity of the officer by virtue of his employment which is transformed into the actual possession of the property and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment.
We accordingly uphold the view of the High Court of Bombay that the terms officer or employee  of a company applies not only to existing officers or employees but also to past officers or employees if such officer or employee either a wrongfully obtains possession of any property or b having obtained such property during the course of his employment withholds the same after the termination of his employment.
In the result the special leave petition must fail and is dismissed with costs.
The petitioner is given one month s time to vacate the premises failing which the respondents will be at liberty to take such proceedings as the law provides.
