It is stated that the appellant was a monthly tenant of the suit premises since about 2nd February 1965.
It is alleged that this agreement was entered into between the parties since the respondent wanted to charge more rent or mesne profits.
Clause 2 of the said agreement recites that the licensee had agreed to use the premises as above and merely for the purpose of workshop business.
It further goes on to state that the licensee shall not under any circumstances be allowed to use the premises for the residential purposes or any other purpose save and except specified therein.
It further stipulated that the licensee should deposit a sum of Rs2500 for the due performance of the terms and conditions of the agreement.
It further stipulated that the licensee shall pay to the licensor a monthly compensation of Rs225 per month.
It is further stipulated that the licensee would be entitled to keep the keys of the said premises with him and shall be at liberty to work in the said premises for twenty hours subject to restriction of rules and regulations imposed by the Municipal or any other local authority or authorities.
It is further provided that the licensee shall be alone responsible and liable for any breach or contravention of any rule or regulation of the said authorities and he shall indemnify the licensor therefor.
It is further stipulated that the licensee shall pay the electric charges in respect of consumption of electricity and the rent of the said premises should be paid by the licensor only.
In setting out the terms of the agreement the emphasis has been supplied to the relevant clauses to highlight the points in controversy.
On or about 9th November 1970 the respondent herein filed an ejectment proceeding against the appellant under section 41 of the .
Before the Judge Court of Small Causes the points of defences were filed in which the appellant had stated that the application was not maintainable and the plaintiff was himself occupying the premises under one Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain who himself had adopted ejectment proceedings against the respondent.
In order to go back to the findings of the learned Judge of the Court of Small Cause and the learned High Court Judge found that the appellant had failed to prove that he was a sub tenant of the respondent and the learned Judge found him to be a licensee.
In any event this is a possible view that could be taken.
In the aforesaid view of the matter we are clearly of the opinion that in view of the intention of the parties in the document and the facts and circumstances of this case it was a licence and not a lease.
NPV Appeal dismissed.
