A bogus identi ty card in the name of Ashok Kumar TNo.
59 T with the sign a tures of the issuing officer was also prepared by the r e spondent although it was not his duty to prepare the ident i ty card.
 After a detailed enquiry against the respondent and t wo others the Inquiry Officer found all the three guilty of the charge framed against each of them.
The Tribunal upon consideration of the matter agre ed with the findings recorded by the Inquiry Officer that t he respondent was the master mind behind the scheme to defra ud the project.
The Tribunal observed Since the applicant had.
After reaching this conclusion the Tribunal pr o ceeded to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded to t he respondent.
An appreciation of the evidence as done in the preceding pages would sh ow that the applicant had entered the name of Shri Ashok Kum ar in the pay roll for May 1969 and so far as other eviden ce against him is concerned it is mostly of a circumstanti al nature.
22 requires the Tribunal to deci de every application made to it as expeditiously as possibl e Ordinarily the Tribunal shall decide every application on a perusal of documents and written representations and aft er heating such oral arguments as may be advanced.
14 15 16 27 28 and 29 it becomes apparent that in the case of proceedings transferr ed to the Tribunal from a civil court or High Court the Trib u nal has the jurisdiction to exercise all the powers whi ch the civil court could in a suit or the High Court in a wr it proceeding could have respectively exercised.
1 9 the Tribunal can exercise any of the powers of a civ il court or High Court.
Because the Tribunal is just a substitute to t he civil court and High Court.
 This proposition in Dhirajlal s case was explained a nd the statement of law in Bidyabhushan s case was affirmed in State of Maharashtra vs BK Takkamore  Ors  It was case of supersession of the Corporation.
 The learned Judge also said at 227 Now it is settled by the decision of this Court in State of Orissa vs Bidyabhushan Mohapatra that if the ord er of a punishing authority can be supported on any finding as to substantial misdemeanour for which the punishment can be imposed it is not for the Court to consider whether the 33 charge proved alone would have weighed with the authority in imposing the punishment.
