Subhash Mallick and SK Jain for the Appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by YOGESHWAR DAYALJ.
These writ petitions were decided by the aforesaid common judgment.
The Sub Divisional Officer then came to the conclusion that the father and the son constitute two separate units and each one of them was entitled to get 62 Bighas and 8 Biswas.
Aggrieved by the order of the Sub Divisional Officer Raghubir Singh filed appeal before the Revenue Appellate Authority Bikaner who by his order dated 6th September 1976 dismissed the same and upheld the order of the Sub Divisional Officer.
Dissatisfied with the order of the Revenue Appellate Authority Raghubir Singh filed a revision application under Section 230 of the Act of 1955 before the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan.
On behalf of raghubir Singh it was urged before the Board that the petitioner was in possession of 112 Bighas only and not 129 Bighas and 3 Biswas as held by the lower courts.
He sought permission to adduce additional evidence in support of his contention.
The application for adducing additional evidence was disallowed.
However the member of the Board came to the conclusion that Surendrapal Singh appellant here in was born to Raghubir Singh on 14th March 1963 and was only 13 years of age when the ceiling proceedings were finalized by the Sub Divisional Officer on 5th May 1976.
He further held that the provisions of the old ceiling law applied to the case but the Sub Divisional Officer had committed an error of law in determining the ceiling area under the new law ie the Act of 1973.
The Board went on to hold that there is no provision for separate units in Chapter III B of the Act of 1955.
Before the Division Bench of the High Court in the writ petitions it was urged on behalf of Raghubir Singh that no appeal having been filed by the State from the order the Sub Divisional Officer dated 5th May 1976 the said order became final and the Board of Revenue had no jurisdiction to set aside that part of the Sub Divisional Officer s order which had gone against the State and in his favour.
It is clear from the language of Section 221 of the Act of 1955 that the Board of Revenue has general powers of superintendence and control over all revenue courts.
It is both administrative as well as judicial powers.
If the subordinate court disregards any specific provision of law and does something illegal it is open to the Board of Revenue to interfere and set the matter right.
At the same time the power is there and it may be exercised sparingly in extraordinary case where interest of justice requires that the Board should exercise the power.
 These words have been consistently interpreted to mean that the High Court had power in appropriate cases to interfere with the judicial orders of the courts.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is similar to Section 107 of the Government of India Act 1915 and there is no section like sub section 2 of Section 224 of the Government of India Act of 1935 in the Act of 1955.
U R Appeal dismissed.
