Appeal No 52 of 1957.
KN Bhattacharya and P K Chatterjee for appellants.
Samanta purchased the leasehold interest of Banerji and thereafter on November 23 1900 it appears that Samanta bad surrendered his rights under the previous lease in favour of the Raja and taken a fresh lease of the same 300 bighas on a reduced rent.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal granted a lease of 96 bighas out of his 400 bighas to one D M Mathews.
On the very same day D M Mathews in his turn granted a lease to one Walji Kheta in respect of the said 96 bighas.
Walji Kheta executed a kabuliat in favour of M Mathews on October 11 1901.
By diverse transfers the interest of Samanata vested in Bagdigi Kujama Collieries Limited.
The plaintiffs case was that as a result of a letter written by the Inspector of Mines on August 18 1941 the plaintiffs made an inquiry and came to know that the defendants had encroached upon their coal mines on the northern side and removed coal from the encroached portion and had rendered the remaining coal of the encroached portion unworkable.
bThat the area encroached upon by the defendants be ascertained and the defendants be directed to vacate the same.
cThat a permanent injunction be issued against the defendants restraining them from encroaching upon the plaintiffs  coal land and cutting and removing coal therefrom.
The learned Subordinate Judge held that the defendant had encroached upon the plaintiff  coal land that the suit was not barred by limitations and that they would be entitled to the reliefs prayed for.
The first question that arises for consideration is whether the defendants had encroached Upon the plaintiffs  coal land.
On August 2 1894 Raja Jaimangal Singh executed the lease deed exhibit 1 in respect of 300 bighas in favour of the respondents  predecessor in interest.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
The southern boundary of this leasehold is given as the northern boundary limit of the leasehold land of Girish Chandra Samanta and others and the western boundary is shown as the eastern boundary of Chatkari Jorh as per the map annexed.
But learned counsel for the appellant contended that the finding is vitiated by the burden of proof having been wrongly thrown on the appellant.
It reads  Period Time from Description of suit.
But the question is whether they have adduced evidence which had the effect of shifting the onus of proof to the appellant.
503 onus of proof may shift to the defendant.
We accept the findings of the High Court that the respondents had knowledge of the appellant s encroachment of their coal mines only in the year 1941 which was within three years of the date of the filing of the suit.
This possibility of the respondents getting an exemption from the operation of the rule was not raised either before the learned Subordinate Judge or before the High Court.
Appeal dismissed.
