Civil Appeal No 50 of 1961.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated March 10 1959 of the Industrial Tribunal.
A V Viswanatha Sastri and T V R Tatachari for the appellant Janardan Sharma for the resondents.
January 29.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by WANCHOOJ.
The appellant in a saw mill carrying on business in Kozihkode in 824 the State of Kerala.
One Sankaran was in the employ of the appellant as a crosscutter.
He was caught hold of by other workmen and taken outside.
The same day Sankaran protested against his suspension and requested that in any case the departmental inquiry should be expedited.
As no inquiry was held till July 2 1958 Sankaran again wrote to the appellant to hold the inquiry as early as possible.
In that order the appellant informed Sankaran that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if he was retained in the service of the appellant and therefore it considered that no inquiry should be held.
A dispute was then raised by the union which was referred to the industrial tribunal for adjudication by the Government of Kerala in October 1958.
The tribunal was of the view that this was a colourable exercise of the power given under r 18a to the appellant and therefore its action could not be upheld as a bona fide exercise of the power conferred.
The claim thus put forward on behalf of the appellant is that it is entitled under r 18a of the Standing orders which is a term of contract between the appellant and its employees to dispense with the service of any employee at any time by just giving 14 days notice or paying 12 days wages.
But the tribunal has pointed out that the employer did not attempt to do so before it.
Learned counsel for the appellant however urges that the employer was empowered to take action under r 18 a of the Standing orders and having taken action under that rule there was nothing for it to justify before the tribunal.
The industrial court in our opinion has the right to inquire into the causes that might have led to termination of service even under a rule like 18a and if it is satisfied that the action taken under such a rule was a colourable exercise of power and was not bona fide or was a result of victimisation or unfair labour practice it would have jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.
In this case the tribunal held that the exercise of power was colourable and it cannot be said that view is incorrect.
Appeal dismissed.
