Appeal No 513 of 1963.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated December 1961 of the Maharashtra Industrial Tribunal in Reference IT No 48 of 1961.
section V Gupte Additional Solicitor General C L Dudhia K T Sule Atiqur Rahman and K L Hathi for the appel lants.
425 M C Setalvad N V Phadke J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and Ravinder Narain for the respondent No 1.
The Head Office of the Company is at Calcutta.
The general practice of the Company both at the Head Office and the Branch Offices appears to have been to retire its employees at the age of 55 though in certain cases the Company in its discretion permitted an employee to continue beyond that age.
This dispute was ultimately referred to the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra.
Before the Tribunal the Company resisted the workmen s claim but submitted that it was agreeable to introduce for its Bombay employees provisions similar to those which had been introduced by agreement for the Calcutta employees retirement at the age of 58 subject to the employee passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
The Tribunal has directed that the age of retirement should be 58 but the Company may in its discretion and with the express or implied consent of the employee concerned continue an employee after he attains that age.
As the Pay Commission Report pointed out This is particularly remarkable considering that the countries differ widely in demographic constitution levels of economic development and climatic and social condition and it indicates a virtual unanimity of competent opinion that balancing the various factors physiological economic and social that are relevant the normal working life should continue up to the age of 60 and may well go on up to 65 years.
If in any particular region employees have been successful in their claim for fixing the age of retirement at 60 this very success is bound to raise in others in the region similar expectations.
The workmen claim that these showed clearly a tendency in the Bombay region to fix the age of retirement in comparable concerns at 60.
Reliance was placed for this purpose on the Chart exhibit Cl.
At first sight therefore it appears to afford impressive 1  2  428 testimony against the workmen s case that the recent trend in Bombay has been to fix the age of retirement at 60.
429 Notice has also to be taken in this connection of the Report of the Norms Committee in which the following opinion was expressed After taking into consideration the views of the earlier Committees and Commissions including those of the Second Pay Commission the report of which has been released recently we feel that the retirement age for workmen in all industries should be fixed at 60.
This considered opinion of a Committee on which both employers and employees were represented emphasised the fact that in the Bombay region at least there is a general agree ment that the age of retirement should be fixed at 60.
Appeal allowed.
