Appeals Nos 1008 and 1009 of 1965.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Wanchoo J.
It is sufficient to say that the respondents made applications under section 33 C2 of the Industrial Disputes Act No 14 of 1947 praying for determination and computation of the benefit to which they were entitled under the Desai award as they were not satisfied with the fixation of their pay by the appellant bank under para 5356.
The Desai award dealt with the method of adjustment in the scales of pay fixed by it from para 5329 onwards.
The second group 900 consisted of workmen who on January 1 1962 were employed in banks which were not governed by the provisions of the Sastry award as modified and were not thus drawing basic pay on the footing of scales of pay provided by that award.
In the first case the Desai award provided that the workmen would be fitted in the new scales of pay from January 1 1962 on stage to stage adjustment basis ie workmen who were drawing basic pay at a particular stage in the time scale of the Sastry award as modified would draw basic pay at the same stage in the new scale applicable to them under the Desai award.
5348 of the Desai award.
As to the second group the Desai award provided that these employees would first be fitted in the appropriate scales provided in the Sastry award as modified as on January 1 1962 and thereafter they would be fitted in the new scales of pay provided by the Desai award as laid down in para.
5348.
5356 of the Desai award and it is this paragraph which calls for interpretation in the present appeals.
292 and certain provisions were made thereunder.
1 As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
5356 of the Desai award we may set out the two paragraphs in parallel columns for comparison Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision For workmen who enterd service of the bank before 31st January 1950 1.
The workman s basic pay as on 31st January 1960 shall not be reduced in any case.
1 Desai award For workmen who entered service of the bank before 1st January 1959 i The workman s basic pay as on January 1 1959 shall not be reduced in any case.
3In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing or in the scales fixed by us should be ignored.
b To the basic pay into which he is fitted under cl.
a the annual increments in the new scale as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of service in the same cadre as on 31st January 1950 up to a limit of 12 years  service hereafter one increment for every four years of service up to another 8 years service and after that one increment for every five years of service.
We have already referred to the fact that para.
iv and the two increments under sub cl.
It is true that the Desai award said that certain changes were being made but these changes were considered necessary having regard to the lapse of time.
a of cl.
b and c cannot exceed the adjusted basic pay as arrived at by point to point adjustment in the Sastry award as modified or the maximum of that scale or the actual basic pay as on 1st January 1959 as the case may be.
a is subject to cl.
a of cl.
ii as interpreted by the appellant.
It is however urged on behalf of the appellant that sub cl.
The fact that by oversight sub cl.
But it may happen that increments provided in sub cl.
a of el.
a of cl.
a of cl.
