Appeal No 801 of 1963.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated September 2 1959 of the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
T V R Tatachari for the appellants.
The present appeal has been brought to this Court by special leave and it arises from a suit filed by the appellants against four respondents.
The original grantdeeds are not available but at the time of the settlement of the Inams in the sixties of the last century Inam title deeds were issued in favour of the family of Pachai Kandai Udayavar.
Respondent No 4 is the Deputy Commissioner Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments L9Sup.
Respondents 1 to 3 who have been appointed as trustees of the said temple by respondent No 4 obtained a certificate from him that the properties in question belonged to the Temple and on the basis of the said certificate they had filed an application before the Magistrate having jurisdiction in the area under section 87 of the Act for possession.
Their case was that the said properties had been granted to the Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple and formed part of its properties.
As trustees appointed by respondent No 4 they claimed that they were entitled to the possession of the properties.
On these pleadings four substantive issues were framed by the learned trial Judge they were  whether the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam whether the grant of the Inam was a religious endowment whether plaintiffs have title to the suit properties and whether plaintiffs have acquired title by prescription  On the first two issues oral and documentary evidence was adduced by the parties.
In consequence the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
Reverting then to the question as to whether a transfer effected by the manager of a temple in regard to properties belonging to the temple falls outside the purview of article 134 B if it is shown to have been made on the basis that the transferor treated the properties as his own it does appear that the two earlier Privy Council decisions in Gnanasambanda s2 and Damodar Das s3 cases lend some support to the contention.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
Article 124 relates to suits filed for possession of a hereditary office and the limitation prescribed for such suits starts when the defendant takes possession of the office adversely to the plaintiff.
It may be permissible to state that this latter observation was made in 1899 long before the Privy Council enunciated the true legal position in regard to the status of the managers of Hindu religious endowments in Vidya Varuthi s case1.
2 LR 37 IA 147.
Thus on the question raised by Mr Tatachari before us there does appear to be some divergence of opinion in the Calcutta High Court itself No other decision has been cited before us which has accepted the proposition that if any part of the property belonging to a Hindu religious endowment is transferred by its manager the transfer is void and the possession of the transferee becomes adverse to the endowment from the very beginning.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
129 in violation of his duty of an interest in endowed lands which he has no authority as Shebait to make may possibly under some circumstances be good as against himself by way of estoppel but is not binding upon his successors.
Therefore we must deal with the present appeal on the basis that article 134 B applies to the facts of the present case.
Besides when respondents 1 to 3 were appointed as trustees of the temple a notice was issued by the 132 office of Assistant Commissioner for Hindu Religious Endowments Tiruchirappalli on the 19th June 1948 in which it was specifically averred that there were no legally constituted trustees for Sri Pachaikantha Udayavar Temple Eragudi and it was mismanaged and so it was proposed to appoint legally constituted trustees for the said temple.
This notice was served on witness Raju lyer and Amrithalinga lyer Chinnasamy Iyer and Rangaraja Reddiar who were performing the worship and acting as de facto managers of the temple.
A 3 A 6 and A 12 and restore that of the lower appellate Court.
In the circumstances of this case we direct that parties should bear their own costs.
