Appeal No 696 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 13 1963 of the Madras High Court in Writ Appeal No IO of 1962.
P Ram Reddy and A V Rangam for the appellant.
R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
Purushottam Raju was the sole proprietor of the business and had been assessed to sales tax in respect of his turnover for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50.
The respondent thereafter moved the Madras High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the orders of the Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.
The Division Bench consisting of section Ramachandra Iyer CJ and Ramakrishnan J reversed the judgment of the Single Judge holding that Rule 21 A of the Sales Tax Rules was illegal and ultra vires and the respondent was not liable to pay the sales tax due from his predecessor in title Purushottam Raju.
Rule 21 A was framed by the State Government under the rule making power granted to it under section 191 and 2 of the Act.
The trans feree shall also be liable to pay tax under the Act on the sales of goods effected by him with effect from the date of such transfer and shall within thirty days of the transfer apply for registration or licence as the case may be unless he already holds a certificate of registration or licence as the case may be.
1 The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
2 In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may provide for c the assessment to tax under this Act of businesses which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed 664 The first question to be considered in this appeal is whether Rule 21 A is intra vires of the power of the State Government under sections 191 and 2 of the Act.
By the amending Act of 1959 Act 1 of 1959 an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
The word is used sometimes to mean the computation of income sometimes the determination of the amount of tax payable and sometimes the whole procedure laid down in the Income tax Act for imposing liability on the tax payer.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act.
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this Act  .
 In the present case the Act is not expressed to come into operation on any particular date but as it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8 1956 the Act came into operation on that date and not before.
In the present case the registered instrument by which the business was transferred to the respondent is dated October 5 1956 and the amending Act has therefore no application.
It was next argued on behalf of the appellants that upon a true construction of the registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the respondent undertook to pay not only Sch.
To put it differently it is not open to the State Government to rely on the instrument inter vivos between the transferor and the transferee and to contend that there is any contractual obligation between the transferee and the State Government who is not a party to the instrument.
