Nos 625 627629 and 630 of 1967 respectively.
156 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde J.
The High Court was anxious that a judicial officer occupying one of the administrative posts enumerated above should not in the interest of judicial work continue in that post for an unduly long time.
On that account there appears to have been some friction between the High Court and the gov ernment for some years past.
Shri PC Dey.
The government by its letter of April 2 1965 intimated that it had no objection to adhere to the principle of three years service in an appointment at a particular station against a special post.
We do not think that it was proper for the government to do so.
AS seen earlier he was holding the post in question ever since 1962In those circumstances the High Court was entitled to recall him and post him as a district and sessions judge.
To hold otherwise would be to contravene article 229 of the Constitution.
district and sessions judge.
1  2  161 namely whether the power to transfer District Judges is included in the control  exercisable by the High Court over District Courts under article 235 or in the power of appointment of persons to be and the posting and promotion of district judges  which is to be exercised by the Governor under article 233 albeit in consultation with the High Court.
A decision is only an authority for what it actually decides.
Neither Bagchi s case nor Ranga Mahammad s case is of any assistance to us in deciding the question whether the High Court has competence to fill some of the posts in the secretariat by transfer judicial officers under Its control.
It must be presumed that they were taken over by the government with the consent of the High Court.
Though we hold that the orders of the High Court posting Shri BK Panda as law secretary Shri T Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri PK Mohanti as deputy law secretary were excess of its powers we do not set aside the mandamus issued by it for the reasons mentioned earlier.
