The High Court by a Full Bench consisting of the Chief Justice and four other Judges quashed the conviction and directed the trial of the respondent and the other accused persons according to law.
Section 3 empowers the State Government by notification in the official gazette to constitute Special Courts and section 4 provides for the appointment of spe cial judges to preside over such courts.
Section 5 whose constitutionality is impugned runs thus 290 51 A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of cases as the classes of offences or cases State Government may by general or special order in writing direct.
 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
The departure in each case is plainly calculated to shorten the trial and thus to attain the declared objective of the statute.
delivered separate judgments agreeing with the conclusion of the Chief Justice Das Gupta J however going further and holding that section 5 1 was unconstitutional in its entirety inasmuch as the clas sification sought to be made on the expediency of speedier trial is not a well defined classification.
It is too indef inite and there can hardly be any definite objective test to determine it.
 Before considering whether section 51 infringes to any and what extent the constitutional prohibition under article 14 it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
Government is not a simple thing.
It is interesting to find that the trend of recent decisions in America has been to lean strongly toward sus taining State action both in the legislative and in the administrative spheres against attacks based on hostile discrimination.
But it is to be noted that the minority which included Holmes and Brandeis JJ expressed the opinion that it was within the power of the State to make such differentiation and the law was perfectly consti tutional.
 In the face of all these considerations it seems to me difficult to condemn section 5 1 as violative of article 14.
If the discretion given to the State Government should be exercised improperly or arbitrarily the administrative action may be challenged as discriminatory but it cannot affect the constitutionality of the law.
In my opinion it is no classifi cation at all in the real sense of the term as it is not based on any characteristics which are peculiar to persons or to cases which are to be subject to the special procedure prescribed by the Act.
The Code of Criminal Procedure has by the process of classification prescribed different modes of procedure for trial of different of fences.
On the 28th of August 1951.
 It is in substance modelled upon the equal pro tection clause occurring in the Fourteenth Amendment of the American Constitution with a further addition of the rule of equality before the law which is an established maxim of the English Constitution.
For the same reason I cannot agree with the learned Attorney General that in cases like these we should enquire as to what was the dominant intention of the legislature in enact ing the law and that the operation of article 14 would be excluded if it is proved that the legislature had no inten tion to discriminate though discrimination was the necessary consequence of the Act.
There is nothing wrong therefore if the State discontinues trial by jury in any district with regard to all or any particular class of offences but as has been pointed out by Mr Justice Chakra varti of the Calcutta High Court it cannot revoke jury trial in respect of a particular case or a particular ac cused while in respect of other cases involving the same offences the order still remains.
It must appear not only that a classification has been made but also that it is based upon some reasonable ground some difference which bears a just and proper relation to the attempted classification1.
The order in question laid down that it would be unlawful for any person to engage in laundry business within the corporate limits without having first obtained the consent of the Board of Supervi sors except the same to be located in a building constructed either of brick or stone.
FN Balsara 2.
This differentia quite clearly has a reasona ble relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act namely the speedier trial of certain offences.
It has on the other hand acted under that part of the section which authorises it to direct cases to be tried by the Special Court for by the notifications it has directed certain specific cases identified by their individual numbers in the records of the particular than as to be tried by the Special Court.
Turning to the pream ble I find that the object of the Act is to provide for the speedier trial of certain offences and not of a partic ular case or cases.
In any case there is no particular bond connecting the circumstances of the first mentioned case with the necessity for a speedier trial.
Bombay and Another vs.
Citing the case of Sunday Lake Iron Co vs Wakefield Rogers vs Alabama and Concordia Fire Ins.
It may even be that it would be more truly done.
Appeals dismissed.
