Appeal No 1671 of 1966.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated March 31 1965 of the Madras High Court in Appeal No 276 of 1962.
AV Rangam for the respondents.
425 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
This appeal is brought by certificate from the judgment of the Madras High Court dated March 31 1965 in AS No 276 of 1962.
The appellant was elected as a trustee by the Sengunatha Mudaliars of Manjakollai village at a meeting held on June 27 1957.
According to the appellant the temple was rounded two hundred years ago by the members of his community and since then the management of the temple and is affairs was always vested in the community of the Sengunatha Mudaliars and no person other than the elected trustee had at any time the right of management and control of the temple.
The respondents however took a different view and proceeded on the basis that trusteeship of the Kumaran Koil was not hereditary.
The Subordinate Judge held that the appellant was a hereditary trustee and the suit was not barred by limitation.
The contention on behalf of the appellant is that the succession is regulated by usage.
Mukherjea J in Angurbala Mullick vs Debabrata Mullick4 delivering the judgment of this Court observed Unless therefore the founder has disposed of the shebaitship in any particular manner and this right of disposition is inherent in the founder or except when usage or custom of a different nature is proved to exist shebaitship like any other species of heritable property follows the line of inheritance from the founder In the case of mutts whose heads are often celibates and sometimes sanyasins special rules of succession obtain by custom and usage.
In Sri Mahant Paramanda Das Goswami vs Radhakrishna Das1 the Madras High Court took the view that where succession to the mahantship is by nomination by the holder in office it was not a hereditary succession.
But the election to the office of trustee in the present case is for a fixed period of one year and not for life.
It is therefore difficult to hold that the office of the appellant is hereditary within the meaning of section 69 of the Act.
It is not possible to say that there is a succession of As office to another when on the efflux of the period for which A was appointed there is a vacancy and B is elected to that vacancy.
For these reasons we hold that this appeal fails and must be dismissed with costs.
