ivil Appeal Nos.
Appeals by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated the 19 1 1970 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Tax Revision Cases Nos 46 and 47 of 1969.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BEG J.
The High Court referred to the fact that the appellants had not produced their account books to show that they had been purchased by persons other than those who ran cinemas or for any other use.
Nevertheless it appears that the entry under consideration links the taxable object with its general or ordinary use.
The taxing authorities were therefore compelled to consider the use which is generally made of the arc carbons.
They had concluded that the common or ordinary use of the arc carbons was that they exuded their power foul light cast through the projectors on cinema screens.
It was pointed out that the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal the final departmental authority under the Act had allowed an application for adducing expert evidence to determine the question whether arc carbons manufactured by the appellant company could be covered by the entry under consideration.
It however appears that before further evidence could be taken at the appellate stage on the subject a decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the State of Andhra Pradesh vs Srimathi Nidmarthi Saraswathi Devi1 was brought to the notice of the Tribunal.
It was held in these cases that they were only copper rods which were melted by electrical power in the process of welding.
Neither the use of the term electrode to describe them suggesting a connection with electricity nor their utilisation in a process involving application of electrical power could convert them into electrical goods as contemplated by the entry in the Madras Act.
The High Court rightly observed that these decisions had no bearing whatsoever upon the very different entry in a schedule of an entirely different Act of a different State.
The entry No 4 occurs in a schedule in which descriptions of goods to be taxed indicate that the expression required for use there with has been employed for equipment or accessories connected with the main purpose.
For instance in entry No 5 the expression occurs at the end as follows Photographic and other cameras and enlargers films and plates paper and cloth and other parts and accessories required for use therewith.
It is not enough to show that the article can be put to other uses also.
2 1970 26 STC 87.
3 1970 26 STC 428.
4 1971 27 STC 45.
564 part and accessories of motor vehicles.
Entry No 2 relating to refrigerators air conditioning plants covers also component parts thereof.
The words parts thereof are used in several entries such as entry No 6 for clocks time pieces and watches entry No 10 for dictaphones and other similar apparatus for recording sound and entry No 11 for sound transmitting equipment such as telephones and loud speakers.
The same item may be an accessory of more than one kind of instrument.
It will be noticed that the entry we have to interpret includes parts as well as accessories which are required for use in projectors or other cinematographic equipment.
We think that the Andhra Pradesh High Court correctly held that the main use of the arc carbons under consideration was duly proved to be that of production of powerful light used in projectors in cinemas.
That is determined by their ordinary or commonly known purpose or user.
VPS Appeals dismissed.
