Civil Appeal No 1231 of 1968.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 20th December 1962 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Civil Appeal No 151 of 1960.
B D Bal with A G Ratnaparkhi for the appellant.
There was a saint endowed with spiritual powers by the name of Sakharam Maharaj at Amalner.
The deity of his worship was Shri Vithal Rukhamai.
Although the origin of the Sansthan is dipped somewhat in antiquity and direct testimony was lacking it has never been disputed that Sakharam Maharaj constructed a temple in the year 1817 at Amalner and installed the aforesaid deity according to religious rites.
The sansthan had movable property of the value of Rs 19164 and immovable properties of the value of Rs 106000 and the average gross annual income as well as the average annual expenditure was Rs 11000 .
After the passing of the Bombay Public Trusts Act 1950 No 29 of 1950 briefly the Act an application under section 18 of that Act was filed by three persons Bhaskarrao Chimanrao Deshmukh Ramrao Sahebrao Deshmukh and Ramkrishna Tryambak Deshpande as constituted attorneys of Vasudeobuwa who was described in the application as the owner of the property.
That led to an application under section 72 of the Act to the District Judge of West Khandesh at Dhulia which was duly filed on behalf of Purshottambuwa who meanwhile succeeded Guru Vasudeobuwa as owner of the Sansthan.
After him there was Krishna buwa and after him there was Balkrishna.
Then came Vasudeo.
This evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande stands corroborated by the Sanad which shows in the year 1860 61 the Manager of the Sansthan as Balkrishnabuwa Guru Govindbuwa.
The next document in sequence is a Varaspatra of February 28 1869 exhibit 35 executed by Guru Govind Balkrishna buwa in favour of Prahladbuwa.
x x x x x The entire ownership of the Sansthan and all the movable and immovable property etc.
That ownership is of your own.
Your Bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
Although it is stated in the document that Balkrishnabuwa was carrying on the Malaki he at the same time states with regard to the Sansthan thus  the same was entrusted to me by Shri Guru Maharaj  x x x x x I therefore thought that I should entrust the work of the Sansthan to you and have appointed you to the said Sansthan.
Again in the gift deed exhibit 39 the donee is described as Shri Rukhmini Pandurang Sansthan Sansthan Amalner Sakharam Maharaj at present Vasudev Buwa Guru Bal 525 krishna Maharaj.
PBR Appeal dismissed.
