Civil Appeal No 1744 of 1968.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 14 6 1967 of the Mysore High Court in Writ Petition No 44065.
Mrs Shyamala Pappu and Girish Chandra for the Appellant.
1 where this Court had held upon a concession by the Attorney General that a list prepared under Section 115 of the  hereinafter referred to as the Act  was provisional.
Therefore it was held that the writ petition was premature as the final list of officers on an integrated seniority list was still to be prepared after hearing objections.
Thus we have no other legal remedies open to us for the re dressal of our grievances and the abridgement of our fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution of India and therefore we are forced to approach this Honble Court to invoke the writ jurisdiction for the redressal.
 It is apparent that the petitioner re spondent was claiming relief against the final Inter State seniority list although he was given due opportunity to object to the provi sional list.
Now Shankariah s case supra was con fined to an admission on behalf of the Central Government that the list before the Court was provisional so that the petitioners before the Court on that occasion were to get opportuni ties of puting forward their objections before the final list is prepared.
Presumably he had that opportunity.
As already observed above the petitioner had ample opportunity to do that.
PK Roy  Ors.
 1 from which learned Counsel thought the following observations could perhaps be cited on behalf of the petitioner respondent at p 202 it was argued by Mr Ashoke Sen that in regard to both these matters the respond ents have a right of representation and the final gradation list should have been pub lished after giving them further oppor tunity to make a representation.
As no such opportunity was furnished to the respondents with regard to these two matters 1 202.
830 we hold that the combined final gradation list dated April 6 1962 so far as category 6 is concerned is ultra vires and illegal and that part of the notification alone must be quashed by grant of a writ in the nature of certiorari.
It was an opportunity to be given before the final list was to be declared and published as a final list.
1 where it was held by this Court at p 2106 1 AIR 1973 Sc 2102 at 2106.
If that is established the decision of the authorities concerned will have to stand.
