270 of 1955.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for a Writ in the nature of Habeas Corpus.
Hemendra Shah J B Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain for the petitioner.
M C Setalvad Attorney General of India C K Daphtary Solicitor General of India B Sen and R H Dhebar with them for the respondent No 1 890 1955 October 14.
DAS ACTG.
This rule was issued on a petition filed under article 32 of the Constitution by one Purshottam Govindji Halai a citizen of India calling upon the respondents to show cause why a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus should not be issued by this Court directing the Superintendent House of Correction Byculla being the second respondent herein to produce before this Court one Govindji Deoji Halai the father of the petitioner who is also a citizen of India for the purpose of being released forthwith.
The said Govindji Deoji Halai hereinafter referred to as the assessee is the sole proprietor of a business carried on under the name and style of Indestro Sales and Service Co at No 50 52 Lohar Chawl Street in the City of Bombay.
Two private limited companies namely Indestro India Ltd and Indestro Eastern Ltd also carry on business and have their respective offices in the same premises.
The assessee did not appear in person on the appointed day but on the next day the 17th June 1955 an Advocate acting on behalf of the assessee wrote a letter to the Additional Collector purporting to show cause why the assessee should not be arrested and sent to the civil jail.
The contentions put forward on behalf of the assessee not being considered satisfactory the Additional Collector on the 30th June 1955 issued a warrant for the arrest of the assessee under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876.
A rule was issued by the High Court but eventually on the 24th August 1955 the High Court Chagla CJ and Desai J discharged the rule.
The rule has now come up before us for hearing.
We proceed to deal with the objections seriatim.
It is next said that the proviso to the sub section invests the Collector with all the powers a Civil Court has under the Code of Civil Procedure for the purpose of the recovery of the amount due under a decree.
The powers that are thus conferred on the Collector by section 462 are unfettered and unguided and enable the Collector at his will to discriminate between two defaulters who are similarly situated and thereby violate the behests of the equal protection clause of the Constitution.
A Collector in the State of Madras in recovering the certified amount of income tax has to proceed under section 48 of the Madras Revenue Recovery Act 1864 Madras Act II of 1864.
897 If the State laws are discriminatory that vice cannot be imputed to section 462.
114 900 of public demand prevailing in that State Here the defaulters are classified on a territorial or geographical basis and this basis of classification has precisely the same correlation to the object of the Indian Income tax Act as it has to the object of the different Public Demands Recovery Acts.
Adoption of an existing machinery devised for a particular purpose cannot if there be no vice of unconstitutionality in the machinery render it unconstitutional if it is made to subserve a purpose closely akin or similar to the purpose for which it bad been devised.
The first objection formulated by learned counsel for the petitioner must therefore be rejected.
A cursory perusal of the two sections will show at once that the procedure prescribed by section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of arrears of land revenue was harsher and more drastic than the procedure laid down in section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code 1879 in that a defaulter residing in the City of Bombay could be kept in detention for a day for every rupee of the arrears which might considerably exceed the maximum period of six months which is the period 904 limited by the Code of Civil Procedure for the detention of a judgment debtor in civil jail.
