V N Ganpule and Mrs V D Khanna for the respondent.
It will be easier with the help of the following pedigree to understand the point involved in this appeal Khandappa Sangappa Magdum Hirabai Plaintiff Gurupad Biyawwa Bhagirathibai Dhundubai Shivapad Deft 1 Deft 3 Deft.
In the judgment under appeal the High Court has based itself on the judgment in Rangubai Lalji2 endorsing indirectly the view that Shiramabai1 was incorrectly decided.
Since the view of the High.
When a male Hindu dies after the commencement of this Act having at the time of his death an interest in a Mitakshara coparcenary property his interest in the property 1196366Bom.
Explanation 2.
Nothing contained in the proviso to this section shall be construed as enabling a person who has separated himself from the coparcenary before the death of the deceased or any of his heirs to claim on intestacy a share in the interest referred to therein.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
The proviso to section 6 contains the formula for fixing the share of the claimant while Explanation 1 contains a formula for deducing the share of the deceased.
The next step equally important though not equally easy to work out is to find out the share which the deceased had in the coparcenary property because after all the plaintiff has a 16th interest in that share.
see Mulla s Hindu Law Fourteenth Edition page 403 para 315.
We think that in overlooking that 14th share one unwittingly permits one s imagination to boggle under the oppression of the reality that there was in fact no partition between the plaintiff s husband and his sons.
That Explanation compels the assumption of a fiction that in fact a partition of the property had taken place the point of time of the partition being the one immediately before the death of the person in whose property the heirs claim a share.
The fiction created by Explanation 1 has to be given its due and full effect as the fiction created by section 18A9 b of the Indian Income tax Act 1922 was given by this Court in Commissioner of Income tax Delhi vs section Teja Singh1.
In an important aspect the case before us is stronger in the matter of working out the fiction because in Teja Singh s case a missing step had to be supplied which was not provided for by section 18A9 If b namely the issuance of a notice under section 22 and the failure to comply with that notice.
That assumption once made is irrevocable.
The inevitable corollary of this position is that the heir will get his or her share in the interest which the deceased bad in the coparcenary property at the time of his death in addition to the share which he or she received or must be deemed to have received in the notional partition.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
