 Criminal Appeal No 133 of 1975.
This appeal has been filed under Section 2a of the .
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
365 The deceased Subhadramma was the wife of the appellant.
Attracted by the cries raised by the PWs 1 to 3 the neighbourers P Ws 4 5 6 and others came there.
below the arm pit 175 cms x 05 cm.
There was no fracture.
She received a stab injury.
He regained consciousness next morning.
We are unable to find any substance in the submissions made by the learned Counsel for the appellant.
The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P Ws 1 2 and 3 were of a minor character and that they have been unduly magnified by the learned Sessions Judge.
below the arm pit on the left side.
It is true that the accused did not have any deep motive to kill the deceased.
PW 3 an old woman of 69 years stated in her evidence that she saw the accused who was sitting by the side of the deceased on the cot make a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased and that the deceased cried out Amma  In cross examination she stated that she did not remember if she had told the Police that the accused made a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
The Inspector of Police P W 15 however stated that P W 3 did not state before him that she saw the accused making a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
We are afraid the learned Sessions Judge allowed himself to be assailed by airy and fanciful doubts.
In Sanwat Singh s case this Court harked 1 Al.
It is therefore essential that any view of the evidence in favour of the accused must be reasonable even as any doubt the benefit of which an accused person may claim must be reasonable A reasonable doubt it has been remarked does not mean some light airy insubstantial doubt that may flit through the minds of any of us about almost anything at some time or other it does not mean a doubt begotten by sympathy out of reluctance to convict it means a real doubt a doubt founded upon reason4.
3 Al.
In Khem Karan  Ors.
vs State of UP  Anr1.
