Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 9th August 1955 of the Bombay High Court in Criminal Application No 726 of 1955.
M R Parpia J B Dadachanji and section N Andley for the appellant.
April 24.
These proceedings relate to the validity of an order of detention passed by the Government of Bombay on the 8th June 1955 against the appellant before us who is an Advocate of the High Court of Bombay having a standing of about thirty years.
He was arrested on the 9th June 1955 and is in detention since then under the impugned order which runs as follows 384 No P D A 1555A Political and Services Department Secretariat Bombay 8th June 1955.
O R D E R.
Whereas the Government of Bombay is satisfied with respect to the person known as Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay that with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the relations of India with the Portuguese Government and to the Security of India it is necessary to make the following Order Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub clause 1 of clause a of sub section 1 of section 3 of the Act IV of 1950 the Government of Bombay is pleased to direct that Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay be detained.
385 4The claim of State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest is unsustainable and in any case mala fide.
These events happened between February to April 1955.
You are also collecting intelligence about the security arrangements on the border area and you make such intelligence available to the Portu 388 guese authorities.
2If you wish to make a representation against the order under which you are detained you should address it to the Government of Bombay and forward it through the Superintendent Arthur Road Prison Bombay.
3He is carrying on these activities with the object of causing further deterioration in the relations between the Portuguese Government and the Indian Government over the question of the Goan National Movement.
But having regard to the nature of the alleged activities of the appellant it is not unlikely that no more could be gathered or furnished.
The fact that be bad made no such application for particulars is therefore a circumstance which may well be taken into consideration in deciding whether the grounds can be considered to be vague.
Assuming however that the grounds furnished in this case are open to the challenge of vagueness the further question which arises is whether the validity of the order of detention can be sustained by reason of the claim in public interest of non disclosure of facts made by the Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay by means of his affidavit filed in the High Court.
But what has been urged before us is that the decision not to disclose the facts as well as the ambit of the non disclosure must be clearly communicated to the detenue at the time when the grounds are furnished.
Such a contention as to the mala fide exercise of the power is untenable in the present case having regard to the nature of the 393 grounds on which the detention is based and the nature of activities imputed therein to the appellant.
