This appeal by special leave has been preferred by Tata Consultancy Engineers against an award dated 20th December 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra Bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
Tata Consultant Engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited.
The Reference was numbered I T No 292 of 1975.
It was urged that the Efficiency Bar as a feature of the wage scales should be removed.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
House rent allowance was also paid.
In proceeding to revise the wage structure the Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
Graduate VIII Sr.
 Further it appears that the Tribunal intended to grant the increase of Rs 150 to each draughtsman and Rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
 The Union prayed that the position may be clarified and the award corrected accordingly.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
During all these years the appellant had continued to enjoy increasing profits nonetheless the emoluments received by the workmen did not receive the impress of the appellant s growing prosperity.
It must be a mistake or error amenable to clerical correction only.
It would do well to recall that the claim of the Union filed before the Tribunal also centered on the need to revise the wage scales.
These statements cannot be regarded as evidence 178 that the appellant was cognizant of the intention of the Tribunal to provide a flat increase to the pay of each workman.
The second contention of the appellant is entitled to succeed.
Reliance was placed on The Hindustan Times Ltd New Delhi vs Their Workmen where it was observed by this Court that dearness allowance should not 179 remain fixed at any figure but should be on a sliding scale in order to neutralise a portion of the increase in the cost of living.
Reference was also made to Bengal Chemical  Pharmaceutical Works Limited vs Its Workmen.
It noted that dearness allowance was being granted by the appellant at 10 of the salary subject to a minimum of Rs 50 and house rent allowance at 30 of the basic salary.
Having regard to the not inconsiderable improvement in the level of the basic wage it observed that there would be a consequent increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
We also agree with him that Civil Appeal No 2299 of 1979 should also be dismissed in so far as it relates to the award dated December 20 1978.
In the said award Your Honour has observed at the end of Para 22 In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance .
Further it appears that the Tribunal intended to grant the increase of Rs 150 to each draughtsman and Rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
The order dated December 22 1978 of the Tribunal also does not reveal that there was any opposition by the company to the application for correcting the award.
For some years to come this is likely to be one of the few Consulting Engineers who will be securing major contracts.
The Tribunal then considered the question whether Draftsmen should get a higher flat increase and the question whether the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance should be revised.
ii Employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st January 1976 2 increments.
iii All other employees with more than one year s service shall be given one increment.
In the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.
