1025 26 of 1978.
Petition o555 of 1977.
LN Sinha Attorney General R B Datar and Miss A Subhashini for the Appellants.
YS Chitale Suresh Sethi and section K Bhattacharya for the applicant intervener Municipal Corpn.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD CJ.
These appeals by special leave involve the question of the legality of the demand for Property tax made by respondent 1 on the appellant Companies.
That Act was passed by the Madhya Pradesh Legislature in order to make provision for planning and development and use of land to make better provision for the preparation of development plans and zoning plans with a view to ensuring that town planning schemes are made in a proper manner and their execution is made effective to constitute Town 7 and Country Planning Authority for proper implementation of town and country development plan to provide for the development and administration of special areas through Special Area Development Authority to make provision for the compulsory acquisition of land required for the purpose of the development plans and for purposes connected with the matters aforesaid.
Section 68 which prescribes the functions of the Development Authority lays down by clauses v and vi that the Development Authority shall make provision for the municipal services and municipal management of the Special Area.
Section 69 by clauses c and d confers upon the Development Authority powers for the purpose of municipal administration and for the purpose of taxation.
Powers The Special Area Development Authority shall d for the purpose of taxation have the powers which is municipal corporation or a municipal council has as the case may be under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 No 23 of 1956 or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961 No 37 of 1961 a where the municipal corporation of municipal council existed in such area prior to its designation as special area under section 64 according to the municipal law by which such special area was governed and b where no municipal corporation or municipal council existed in such area prior to its designation as special area under section 64 according to such of the aforesaid Acts as the State Government may direct 8 Clauses a and b above are sub clauses of clause d.
Such a direction was first issued by Notification dated January 28 1976 published in the Government Gazette dated February 27 1976 by which the Development Authority Korba was directed to exercise the powers and perform the functions of a Class I Municipality constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Municipality Act 1961.
The corresponding provision in the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 is section 132 1a.
In the other two appeals Nos 1025 and 1026 of 1978 the appellant Western Coalfields Ltd is also a hundred per cent undertaking of the Government of India.
Relying on this it is argued that respondent 1 was incompetent to exercise the powers of the Municipality or the Municipal Corporation under section 127A of the Municipalities Act or section 135 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
The Act of 1973 did not by section 69d incorporate in its true signification any particular provision of the two earlier Acts.
Sections 127A and 135 create by their own force the liability to be brought to property tax and the right to levy that tax.
It is not imposed under section 127 of the former Act or section 132 of the latter Act.
It is urged that if at all the lands can be subjected to property tax it is the State Government and not the appellant companies who can be called upon to pay that tax.
The appellants may if so advised raise this particular point in future assessments.
In that case under the terms of a mining lease the lessee worked the mines and bound himself to pay a dead rent if he used the leased land for the extraction of iron ore and to pay surface rent in respect of the surface area occupied or used by him.
