From the Judgment and order dated the 1st July 1981 of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir in LPA No 1 of 1981 and CMP No 454 of 1981.
578 DD Thakur SN Kacker and RP Bhatt for respondent in 261181.
The Judgment and order of the Division Bench of the High Court presided over by learned Acting Chief Justice is set aside and one by learned Single Judge Dr A section Anand is restored and consequently the Writ Petition No 436 of 1980 filed by Respondents in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir stands dismissed.
No order as to costs of hearing in this Court.
 We now proceed to state in this judgment the reasons in support of our aforesaid conclusion 579 In July 1966 the appellant Ved Gupta decided to embark upon a venture to construct and operate an air conditioned Cinema in a plot of land which he proposed to take on lease in Gandhi Nagar Jammu in Collaboration with two osher persons namely Todar Mal and Kishan Kumar.
From Annexure B it would appear that the permission so granted was in favour of Ved Ved Gupta in his individual capacity and not as the representative of any firm.
 The construction of the Cinema Theatre appears to have been completed by the middle of June 1969.
On July 22 1969 a licence was issued by the District Magistrate to Ved Gupta under Section 3 of the Act to give public exhibition of cinematograph films at the Apsara Theatre situated at Gandhi Nagar Jammu.
Annexure D is a copy of the said licence and it is expressly stated therein that the said licence has been granted to Shri Ved Gupta and that it shall remain in force until March 31 1970 provided that Shri Ved Gupta or any person to whom with the consent of the licensing authority the licence is transferred continues to own or manage the cinematographs used ill the said Apsara Theatre.
A Schedule of conditions imposing various duties and obligations on the licensee is also appended to the said licence.
On March 31 1970 two partners Todar Mal and Sham Kumar retired from the partnership.
 Soon thereafter on December 3 1975 Todar Mall who had retired from the firm and Krishan Kumar who continued to be a partner jointly issued a notice to the District Magistrate Jammu claiming that their names should also be included in the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Apsara Theatre.
Krishan Kumar was a party respondent in the Special Leave Petition also.
On April 19 1979.
These contentions were repelled by the District Magistrate who held that the renewal of the licence could not be made in the name of any party other than the original licensee namely Shri Ved Gupta who had been declared to be the sole licensee in respect of the Apsara Theatre by the proceedings of his predecessor dated December 29 1977 which was confirmed in appeal by the State Government and which had acquired finality between the parties by reason of the dismissal of the writ petition and the Special Leave Petition by the High Court and Supreme Court respectively.
On the date of the institution itself the District Judge Jammu issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
It was contended inter alia by the petitioner that there had been a gross violation of the principles of natural justice inasmuch as the petitioner firm and its partners had not been given any notice or afforded hearing before the impugned order was passed.
It was further held by The Acting Chief Justice that the effect of the licence was that it renders privilege the building of the cinematographs used therein and the privilege must necessarily follow the title in such building and the cinematograph.
2 If the judges composing the bench are equally divided on any point they shall state the point upon which they differ and the case shall then be heard upon that point by one or more of the other Judges designated for the purpose by the Chief Justice and such point shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority if any of the judges who have heard the case including those who first heard it.
3 If there is no such majority then the decision shall be in accordance with the decision of the senior Judge except in the case of an appeal from a decree where such decree shall be confirmed 586 In the opinion of the Division Bench the present case was governed by sub rule 3 of Rule 23 and consequently the decision in the case had to be in accordance with the opinion of the senior Judge.
This has resulted in the highly anomalous situation that as against the view concurrently taken by the two Judges of the High Court viz Anand J and Mir J the opinion of the Acting Chief Justice which was really the minority view has been allowed to prevail on the basis of the reasoning that the case was governed by sub rule 3 of Rule 23.
That Section is in the following terms 6 F Power to revoke licence Where the holder of a licence or a person in charge of a cinematography or management thereof or an owner or partner thereof or an employee thereof has been convicted of an offence under Section 6 or Section 6 E of this Act or under Section 15 of the Jammu and Kashmir Entertainments Duty Act 1959 the licence may be revoked by the licensing authority.
 On a careful reading of this Section it will be seen that far from supporting the view taken by the learned Acting Chief Justice this provision goes to show that the holder of a licence may be a person different from the owner of the cinematograph or a partner of the cinematography.
There was thus a clear 591 prohibition against the licensee from transferring assigning subletting or otherwise transferring the licence without the permission of the licensing authority and also against his allowing any other person to exhibit films in the licensed place without obtaining such permission.
The District Magistrate was requested by the said letter that orders may be passed suspending the exhibition of films in the Cinema till the final decision of the court is made in favour of either of the parties.
The impugned order is obviously one passed by him in the discharge of the said function.
What was done thereunder is to suspend the exhibition cinematograph films in the Theatre by persons other than the licensee.
