etition Nos.
1073 1100 1117 19 1229 95 142 1554 1746 2140 2155 2271 2396 2459.
1198 1217 1302 12 1314 15 1566 1641 1140 70 2360 95 1643 17252272 232921522332233924913486 89 2498 2521 2522 533 742611 2638 and 2531 of 1983.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Writ Petition Nos 42184571 and 5266 5280 of 1983 Under article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Transfer Case Nos 44 339 of 1983 KK Venugopal SS Ray PP Rao VM Tarkuade and R K Garg V Jogayya Sharma MP Rao Sudarsh Menon T VS N Churi G Narasimhulu A Subba Rao MKD Namboodiry HS Guru Raj Rao section Markandeya ATM Sampath DK Garg Nikhil Chandra and A K Panda for the Petitioners.
LN Sinha Attorney General Anil B DivanB Parthasarthi and KR Chaudhary for the Respondents.
GN Rao for the State.
Miss A Subhashini for the Union.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD C J.
In the elections held to the Legislative Assembly of Andhra Pradesh in January 1983 a new political party called Telugu Desam was swept to power.
On February 8 1983 an Order GO Ms No 36 was issued by the Government of Andhra Pradesh stating that it had decided to reduce the age of superannuation of all Government employees other than in the last Grade Service from 58 to 58 years.
Two notifications issued in exercise of the power conferred 586 by the Proviso to Article 309 read with Article 313 of the Constitution was appended to that order.
By these notifications every Government servant whether ministerial or non ministerial but not belonging to the last Grade Service who had already attained the age of 55 years was to retire from service with effect from February 28 1983.
The case of the petitioners as laid in the writ petitions is that there was no basis at all for reducing the age of retirement from 58 to 55 that the age of retirement was increased from 55 to 58 by the Government of Andhra Pradesh by a notification dated October 29 1979 and nothing had happened since then to justify reduction of the age of retirement again to 5 i that providing employment opportunities to the youths h Is no relevance on the question of fixing the age of retirement that the Government had exercised its power arbitrarily without having regard to factors which are relevant on the fixation of the age of retirement that the Government had acted unreasonably in not giving any previous notice to the employees which would have enabled them to arrange their affairs on the eve of retirement that the Government was estopped from reducing the age of retirement to 55 since the employees had acted on the representation made to them in 1979 by increasing the age of retirement from 55 to 58 that as a result of the increase in the age of retirement from 55 to 58 years in 1976 a vested right had accrued to the employees which could be taken away if at all only from future entrants to the Government service that retirement of experienced and mature persons from Government service will result in grave detriment to public services of the State and that the decision of the Government is bad for a total non application of mind to the relevant facts and circumstances bearing on the question of the age of retirement like increased longevity.
A counter affidavit was filed on behalf of the State of Andhra Pradesh by Shri R Parthasarathy Joint Secretary in the Finance Department of the State at the stage of admission of the writ petitions.
The inconvenience alleged by the petitioners in the matter of payment of their pension and other retirement benefits was imaginary since the Government was making extensive arrangements to disburse such benefits expeditiously.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
588 The affidavit is sworn by Shri AK Sharma Deputy Secretary to Government of Andhra Pradesh.
Finance and Planning.
The rest of the averments i1 this affidavit are on the same lines as in the affidavit of Shri R Partbasarathy.
On the very next day that is on April l0th Governor of Andhra Pradesh promulgated Ordinance No 5 of 1983 called the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Regulation of Conditions of Service Ordinance  The Ordinance was passed to regulate the recruitment and conditions of service of persons appointed to Public Services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State of Andhra Pradesh and the officers and servants of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Clause 103 provides that every workman belonging to the Last Grade Service or employed on a monthly rate of pay in any service notified as Inferior shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Workmen belonging to Ministerial Service or any service other than the Last Grade Service notified as Inferior have to retire on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which they attain the age of 55 589 years.
By clause 15 All Rules and Regulations made under the proviso to Article 309 or continued under Article 3 l 3 of the Constitution or made under any other law for the time being in force governing the recruitment and conditions of service of the Government employees continue to be in force in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance.
It provides further that all amendments made to the Fundamental Rules and particularly the amendments made by the notification dated February 8 1983 shall be and shall be deemed always to have been made validly and shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules as if the Ordinance was in force on February 8 1983.
Rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules is omitted by Clause l 8ii while Rule 231 of the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules is omitted by clause 19 of the Ordinance.
Shri Venugopal challenged the Ordinance on the ground that it is unreasonable.
Shri PP Rao contends that the Ordinance is bad because.
Barring a few services in a few parts of the world as for example the American Supreme Court the terms and conditions of every public service provide for an age of retirement.
A common scheme of general application governing superannuation has therefore to be evolved in the light of experience regarding performance levels of employees the need to provide employment opportunities to the younger sections of society and the need to open up promotional opportunities to employees at the lower levels early in their career.
Often the Court has no satisfactory and effective means to decide which alternative out of the many competing ones is the best in the circumstances of a given case.
Where an act is arbitrary it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Article 14l But while resolving the validity of policy issues like the age of retirement it is not proper to put the conflicting claims in a sensitive judicial scale and decide the issue by finding out which way the balance tilts.
That is an exercise which the administrator and the legislature have to undertake.
As stated in The Supreme Court And The Judicial Function 2 Judicial self restraint is itself one of the factors to be added to the balancing process carrying more or less weight as the circumstances seem to require.
State of Tamil Nadu  2 Edited by Philips B Kurland Oxford and IBH Publisning Co Page 13.
592 lative competence or on the legislative power to pass laws which bear on fundamental rights.
In the very nature of things no scientific investigation could have been made no material gathered and no statistics compiled as regards the number of employees who will retire the number of persons who would get fresh employment and the hardship caused to the superannuated employees by the delay in the payment of retirement benefits to them.
That result is indeed produced by the impugned action of the State Government In 1979 when the age of retirement was increased from 55 to 58 years promotional opportunities were denied to the employees because those who would have retired at the age of 55 got a fresh lease of life for another years.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
In any case the power of a Commission to enquire into a question must depend 595 upon the terms of the Reference and not upon the statements made on the floor of the House.
The State Government is therefore justified in its contention that the question of the age of retirement was not referred to the Commission and that the decision which the Government took later to increase the age of retirement from 55 to 58 was not based on the recommendation of the Commission.
As regards Shri Venugopal s argument at b above the fact that the decision to reduce the age of retirement from 58 to 55 was taken by she State Government within one month of the assumption of office by it cannot justify the conclusion that lt the decision is arbitrary because it is unscientific in the sense that it is not backed by due investigation or by compilation of relevant data on the subject.
A delayed decision of the executive can also be had as offending against the provisions of the Constitution and it can be no defense to the charge of unconstitutionality that the decision was taken after the lapse of a long time.
Conversely decisions which are taken promptly cannot be assumed to be bad because they are taken promptly.
Every decision has to examined on its own merits in order to determine whether it is arbitrary or unreasonable.
Besides we have to consider the validity of a law regulating the age of retirement.
Indeed the acceptance of argument advanced by the various counsel for the petitioners must lead to the conclusion that there has to be a uniform age of retirement all over India.
The argument could still be made that improvement in the expectation of life requires that the age of retirement should be fixed at 60 or 62 or even at 65.
Both can fall within the constraints of the Constitution and neither the one nor the other can be considered to be arbitrary or unreasonable.
The following table will show the variation in the retirement age which exists at present in the various States in India TB 30 State Retirement Age Haryana 58 years Jammu  Kashmir 55 years Karnataka 1979 58 years 1981 55 years Kerala 1967 55 years 1968 58 years 597 1969 55 years 1984 58 years Madhya Pradesh 58 years Reduced to 55 years 1967 enhanced to S years in 1970.
Neither the American nor the English notions or norms for fixing retirement age can render invalid the basis which is widely accepted in our country as reasonable for that purpose.
Paragraph 6 of the Commission s Report shows that the question was reconsidered in 1963 when the only additional argument advanced against an upward change its adverse effect on educated 599 unemployment.
Some of the reasons on which there was unanimity for increasing the age of retirement were the continuing mental and physical efficiency of most of the Government servants at the age of 55 the increased expectation of life resulting from improved public health conditions and the national waste involved in sending men and women into enforced idleness while they were still capable of rendering efficient service.
On this data the Commission concluded in paragraph 11 of its Report Thus however valid may have been the view taken in 1971 and re affirmed in 1937 38 that the age of 55 was normally the dividing line between health and efficiency on the one side and marked physical deterioration and decline in efficiency On the other there is sufficient reason to think that is no longer so and that the deviding line can be safely moved a few years upwards.
 The Commission then adverted to the prevailing ages of retirement in foreign countries and reiterated that whether we go by our own vital statistics or by the age of retirement prevalent in other countries there was a clear case for raising the age of superannuation substantially above 55 years.
In paragraph 15 of the Report the Commission considered the effect of increasing the age of retirement on the employment situation and concluded that the likely repercussion of increasing the age of retirement on educated unemployment would not be substantial.
After stating that the Krishnaswamy Commission was appointed on November 3 1977 for the sole purpose of 603 examining the question of  retirement benefits and that the question of retirement age was not included in its terms of reference the White Paper says that although the Government had accepted the recommendations of the Commission almost in their entirety it did not accept its recommendation that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 years.
Government therefore decided to revise the age of superannuation from 58 years to 55 years so that the unemployed talented youth who were eagerly awaiting chances of appointment could get opportunities of employment.
Besides experienced deserving inservice personnel whose legitimate aspirations for promotion were thwarted could also now look for this much awaited promotion.
 604 The White Paper explains that in order to ensure that the employees who had retired by the end of February 1983 should get their pensionary benefits without delay the Government had constituted a special Pension cell in the Finance Department by a notification dated February 16 1983.
But apart from this position we find it difficult to appreciate how the retirement of an employee in accordance with a law or rules regulating his conditions of service can amount to his removal from service.
It is well settled that Article 311 2 is attracted only when a civil servant is reduced in rank dismissed or removed from service by way of penalty that is to say when the effect of the order passed against him in this behalf is to visit him with evil consequences.
See Satish Chandra vs Union of India1 Shyam Lal vs State of U P1 State of Bombay vs Saubhagchand M Doshi3 Purshottam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India4 and P Balakotiah vs Union of India5.
Besides the point made by Shri Tarkunde is concluded by a Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Bishun Narain Misra vs State of Uttar Pradesh 6 In that case the Government of Uttar Pradesh and raised the age of superannuation from 55 to 58 years by a Notification dated November 27 1957 but reduced it again to 55 years by a Notification dated May 25 1961.
Learned counsel contends that this decision is of doubtful authority since the Court based its opinion on the majority judgment in Moti Ram Deka vs yGeneral Manager North Frontier Railway7 in which the Court was not called upon to consider and did not consider the validity of a rule of superannuation.
See BS Vaderu vs Union of India1 Raj Kumar vs Union of India2.
These then are the main points in controversy on which counsel made their contentions.
1   582 585.
