Civil Appeals Nos.
From the Judgment and Order dated 261269 of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad in WP Nos 3956 3971 3983 3899 4421 4474 4537 4544 4570 4825 and 493368.
DK Sen Gopal Subramonium and RN Poddar for the Appellant.
Money lending business not to be carried on in licensed premises No licensed dealer shall unless authorised by the Administrator so to do a carry on business as a money lender or banker on the security of any article or ornament or both b permit any other person to carry on money lending banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
No rules have been framed prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the Administrator could refuse permission or grant permission.
 Incidentally the High Court also proceeded to draw analogy from the reasoning adopted by this Court in its decision in Harakchand Ratanchand Banthias vs Asst.
It is true that no express rule prescribing the conditions or circumstances under which the permission can be granted or refused 1 955 has been framed nor any particular guide line has been expressly indicated in sec.
 In Harakchand Banthria s case supra this Court has further pointed out that even though import of gold into India had been banned considerable quantities of contraband gold were finding their way into the country through illegal channels affecting the national economy and hampering the country s economic stability and progress that the Customs Department was not in a position to effectively combat the smuggling over the long borders and coast line that therefore anti smuggling measures had to be supplemented by a detailed system of control over internal transactions and that the Gold Control Act 1968 was passed for this purpose.
Moreover against his order under that section a revision lies to Central Government which implies that he will have to make judicious use of his power or discretion and any improper exercise is liable to be corrected by a higher authority.
We may indicate that the same provision section 28 was challenged before the Patna High Court in Bihar State Bullion Merchants  Association vs Union of lndia1 and the Gujarat High Court in Ramanlal Purshottamamdas Chokshi vs Union of India  Others 2 and these High Courts have upheld its validity.
214 Guj.
e and public interest  in cl.
