4053 to 4056 of 1985.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY J.
Special leave granted in all the cases.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
By an order dated February 1 1984 the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
A number of appeals were preferred to the Karnataka State Transport Appellate Tribunal.
The Tribunal rejected their appeals regretfully.
A large number of applicants filed writ petitions in the High Court.
The decision of this Court in Sher Singh vs Union of India  was distinguished on the ground that in that case the court interpreted the word preference  occurring in section 471 H in the back ground of the provisions of Chapters IV and IV A of the Act under the former of which the State Transport Undertaking would have preference whereas under the latter the State Transport Undertaking would have a monopoly.
637 the preference became operative only if other things were equal.
A public service vehicle is defined in section 225 as any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward and includes a motor cab contract carriage and stage carriage.
Section 631 stipulates broadly that a permit granted by the Regional Transport Authority of any one region shall not be valid in any other region unless the permit has been countersigned by the Regional Transport Authority of that other region and a permit granted in any one State shall not be valid in any other State unless countersigned by the State Transport Authority of 1014 that other State or by the Regional Transport Authority concerned.
Section 637 is the provision with whose interpretation and vires we are primarily concerned in this case.
Preference in this context would mean that other things generally appearing to be qualitatively and quantitatively equal though not with mathematical accuracy statutory provision will tilt the balance in favour of the Undertaking.
 What has been said by the Court with reference to the preference 1017 provided for in section 471 H applies with equal force to the preference provided for by the proviso to section 637.
We have no hesitation in saying that all that has been said about preference  in Sher Singh s case in relation to section 471 H applies mutatis mutandis to the preference contemplated by the proviso to section 637.
A question was raised before us about the vires of the fourth clause of the proviso to section 637.
It is difficult to agree with these submissions.
637 of the .
