From the Judgment and Order dated 1781985 of the Allahabad High Court in CM Writ No 6849 of 1984.
Pursuant to the said decision the President of India promulgated the Life Insurance Emergency Provisions Ordi nance 1956 on January 19 1956 providing for the vesting of the management of the life insurance business which was called the controlled business under the Ordinance which was being carried on by any insurer in India on that day in the Central Government and providing for its management.
On the passing of the said Ordinance the management of the controlled business of all the insurers in India thus vested in the Central Government and pending the appointment of the custodians for the controlled business of any insurer the person in charge of the management of such business immedi ately before the passing of the Ordinance was required to be in charge of the management of the business for and on behalf of the Central Government.
2 Notwithstanding anything con tained in sub section 1 or in any contract of service the Central Government may for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in it or for the purpose of reducing the remuner ation payable to employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyhold ers a reduction is called for alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thinks fit and if the alteration is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months  remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
 Sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act provided that every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in the Corpora tion and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business immediately before the appointed day ie September 1 1956 would on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corpora tion and would hold his office therein by the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and condi tions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if the Act had not been passed and would continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation was terminated and until his remunera tion terms and conditions were duly altered by the Corpora tion.
The proviso to that sub section provided that nothing contained in sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act would apply to any such employee who had by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to September 1 1956 intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
In many cases the insurers had permitted their employees to continue in their service even beyond 60 years depending upon their efficiency and physical capacity.
The conditions of service of employees and in particular the terms of remuneration prevalent in some of the former 192 insurance organisations were also disadvantageous to the policyholders.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
 The above regulation fixed the age of retirement of an employee at 55 years while empowering the authority to extend the service of an employee at its discretion every year upto 60 years of age.
 Clause 13 of the above Order therefore modified regu lation 21 of the Staff Regulations 1956 to the extent indicated therein with effect from the commencement of the Corporation.
 It may be noted that the Field Officers referred to in the former clause 6 had been redesignated as the Development Officers before it was substituted by the later clause 6 of the standardisation order.
Most of the insurers permitted their officers to continue in service upto 60 years of age and even beyond depending upon their efficiency.
The relevant part of the amended regulation 19 which was noti fied on 1961965 read thus 191.
2 An employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been im paired.
By virtue of the judgment of the High Court the 1st Respondent continued in the service of the Corporation till he complet ed 60 years of age.
It was also contended that whatever may be the position in respect of persons who were appointed directly to any post belonging to Class I or Class II category after 1st September 1956 as regards those who joined the service of the Corporation on being appointed to a Class III post after 1st September 1956 there could not be any reduction of the age of retirement from 60 years to 58 years on their being promoted to a Class I post or Class II post.
The Central Government and the Corporation felt that 60 years of age could be a proper age of retirement in the circumstances in respect of the transferred employees and that was the reason why by regulation 19 and the standardisation order issued earlier in the case of certain classes of transferred em ployees under section 112 of the Act the retirement age was fixed at 60 years and this was done with a view to retaining the services of the experienced employees of the erstwhile insurers.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Benefits conferred there under on the employees must yield 207 to the need for ensuring that the Corporation and its policy holders do not suffer unreasonably from the burden of such benefits.
Clearly the answer must be in the affirmative.
 We have given extracts from the above decisions which are fairly long since they relate to the identical provi sions of law and also cover a large part of the arguments urged before us.
vs The State of Haryana  Ors supra appointed in the local bodies Schools before provincialisation  challenged the validity of the 1961 Rules.
The Government and the Corporation felt that the services 16 persons who were working in the Department of Insurance were required by the Corporation.
Out of those 16 13 have already retired from service on attaining the age of 60 years.
We do not also find much substance in the contention of the 1st Respondent that there cannot be any discrimination as regards the age of retirement between the employees belonging to Class I and Class II on the one hand and Class III and Class IV on the other.
In the Settlement which was arrived at between the management and the Class III and Class IV em ployees recruited after 1st September 1956 it was agreed that there should be no discrimination as regards the age of retirement between the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV categories amongst the transferred employees and the Class III and Class IV employees recruited after 1st September 1956.
Ltd directed the retirement age of the clerical staff of the Refinery Division of respondent 1 to be fixed at 60 years.
The two decisions referred to above have been rendered by two different Division Benches.
NOTE For the purpose of this Clause the expression Government Service includes service rendered in ex company and ex State Railways and in a former provincial Govern ment.
NPV Appeals allowed.
