VN Ganpule for the Petitioner.
Soli J Sorabjee KJ John and AK Desai for the Respondents.
 The only question involved in this special leave petition is as to the scope and effect of sub section.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
1 of section 630 of H 172 the Act the High Court of Calcutta in Amritlal Chum vs Devi Ranjan Jha  Anr held that it refers only to the existing officers and employees of a company.
1 of section 630 must be interpreted to mean not only the present officers and employees of a company but also to include past officers and employees of the company.
That has been the consistent view taken by the High Court of Bombay in a series of cases.
See Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh  Anr  Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi  Anr  which have since been followed in a series of cases referred to by the learned Single Judge Ashok Agarwal J.
1 of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
1 of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section 2 also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section.
2 against such officer or employee.
At the very threshold it is necessary to set out a few facts.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
In 1975 the company purchased a spacious flat being flat No 151 in Jolly Maker Apartment III at 119 Cuffe Parade and the petitioner being the senior most executive was allotted the flat for his residence.
The petitioner retired from the service of the company on or about September 30 1984.
Prior to that ie On September 26 1984 he addressed a letter requesting the company to permit him to continue to live in the company s premises during the period of his accumulated leave after his retirement ie for a period of six months undertaking to vacate the flat as early as possible.
The Corporation in the counter affidavit interalia has pleaded that there is acute shortage of housing accommodation in the Metropolitan City of Bombay and it becomes necessary for the Corporation with a view to attract good talent to provide suitable housing accommodation to its officers and employees and that due to acute financial liquidity it is not possible for the Corporation to buy property in Bombay for this purpose.
Sub section.
b contemplates a case where an officer or employee of a company having any property of a company in his possession wrongfully withholds it or knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the 176 articles and authorised by the Act.
It may well be that an officer or employee may have lawfully obtained possession of any such property during the course of his employment but wrongfully withholds it after the termination of his employment.
1 of section 630 of the Act.
He had been inducted into the flat only by virtue of his capacity as the General Manager of the company s branch office at Bombay but the company allowed him to retain the same on humanitarian grounds for a short period after his retirement to enable him to find alternative accommodation.
 In Govind T Jagtiani vs Sirajuddin section Kazi supra Kanade J fol lowed the critical analysis of section 630 made by Kotwal J as above and observed that the entitlement of an officer to the property of the company and the duration of such right would be co terminus with the terms of employment and the right would stand extinguished with the termination to the employment giving rise to an obligation to hand over the property back to the company and observed If the property is held back the retained possession would amount to wrongful withholding of the property of the company.
In our considered opinion the construction placed by the High Court on the provisions contained in s6301 is the only construction possible.
PSS Petition dismissed.
