Civil Appeal No 1377 of 1982.
From the Judgment and Order dated 17111980 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Appeal No 251 of 1977.
FR Nariman EK Jose PH Parekh and Miss Sunita Sharma for the Appellant.
YH Muchhala BR Aggarwala and Miss section Manchanda for the Respondent.
The main question involved in this appeal is whether the appellant was a licensee or a tenant and also incidentally the question whether the Court of Small Causes Bombay had jurisdiction to deal with the eviction petition in this case.
It is alleged that this agreement was entered into between the parties since the respondent wanted to charge more rent or mesne profits.
Clause 2 of the said agreement recites that the licensee had agreed to use the premises as above and merely for the purpose of workshop business.
The licensor was entitled to terminate the agreement earlier notwithstanding the fact that the period of the agreement might not have expired.
Before the Judge Court of Small Causes the points of defences were filed in which the appellant had stated that the application was not maintainable and the plaintiff was himself occupying the premises under one Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain who himself had adopted ejectment proceedings against the respondent.
The learned Judge recorded further that it was practice in the Court of Small Causes Bombay of using the expression 1063 BC.
The said learned Judge however observed that the use of the words in the paragraph which we have stated hereinbefore made the entire paragraph meaningless.
On an analysis and examination of evidence recorded and in the background of the documents in question the learned Judge came to the conclusion factually that it was an agreement for leave and licence and the appellant was a licensee and not a sub tenant.
Thereafter the appellants had served a notice upon the respondent calling upon him to remove himself from the said premises.
The respondent refused to do so.
In July 1967 the appellants 1064 filed an application for eviction under section 41 of the .
The contention of the respondent that he was a tenant was negatived by the Small Cause Court Bombay.
The respondent approached the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution.
The Bombay Rent Act was amended by Maharashtra Act 17 of 1973.
It was observed that the finding of the High Court that the respondent was in occupation of the premises under a subsisting licence was wholly wrong and suffered from serious infirmities of law and fact and deserved to be set aside.
In support of this appeal Sree RF Nariman very laboriously took us through the documents.
Clause 12 is significant which gave to the licensor the right to enter upon the premises and inspect the same at any time.
It was a possible view.
NPV Appeal dismissed.
