Civil Appeal No 8440 of 1983.
From the Judgment and Order dated 22483 of the High Court of Bombay in Writ Petition No 238882.
Dr YS Chitale PH Parekh RK Dhillon Ms Sunita Sharma and Dr D Chandrachud for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
Newspaper establishment is defined by section 2d of the Act as an establishment under the control of any person or body of persons whether incorporated or not for the production or publication of one or more newspapers or for conducting any news agency or syndicate.
A non journalist newspaper employee means any person employed to do any work in or in relation to any newspaper establishment but does not include any such person who is a working journalist or is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature as stated in section 2dd of the Act.
Those provisions relate to the retrenchment payment of gratuity hours of work leave fixation or revision of wages etc.
Section 9 of the Act authorises the Central Government to appoint a Wage Board consisting of two persons representing employers in relation to newspaper establishments two persons representing working journalists and three independent persons one of whom shall be a person who is or has been a Judge of a High Court or of the Supreme Court and who shall be appointed by that Government as the Chairman thereof for the purpose of making recommendations with regard to fixation or revision of wages of working journalists.
Similarly section 13C of the Act provides for the constitution of a Wage Board for the purpose of making recommendations regarding the fixation or revision of the rates of wages in respect of non journalist news 780 paper employees.
That Tribunal has to consist of a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court.
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 13AA and section 13DD of the Act the Central Government constituted under two separate notifications two Tribunals on 921979 with Justice Palekar a former Judge of the Supreme Court as the member of each of the two Tribunals to make recommendations in respect of fixing or revising wages of working journalists as well as non working journalists.
In exercise of its powers under section 12 of the Act the Central Government accepted a part of the recommendations and made an order thereon on 26121980 and accepted the remaining part of the recommendations and made another order thereon on 2071981.
The 1st respondent All India Reporter Limited was not served with any individual notice by the Tribunal before it passed its award.
However on 1571981 and 381981 the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur wrote to the 1st respondent asking it to file its written statements in the matter of non implementation of the Palekar Award as the orders of the Central Government made under section 12 of the Act were popularly called.
Immediately after the service of the said notice the Ist respon 781 dent filed a writ petition on the file of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay Nagpur Bench in Writ Petition No 2388 of 1982 questioning the validity of the notice served on it by the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur calling upon it to implement the orders of the Central Government on the basis of the award of the Palekar Tribunal.
Initially the State of Maharashtra the Commissioner of Labour and the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur had been impleaded as respondents.
The High Court accepted the plea of the Ist respondent and declared that the law reports were not newspapers within the meaning of section 2b of the Act and that the demand made by the Deputy Labour Commissioner to comply with the order made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Palekar was unsustainable by its judgment dated 22nd April 1983.
Any other class of printed periodical work as may from time to time be notified in this behalf by the Central Government in the Official Gazette may also be a newspaper.
 Newspapers and books are no doubt shown as separate items but the distinction between them sometimes becomes very thin or totally vanishes.
In this connection it is necessary to reproduce a passage from the Report of the Royal Commission on the Press 1947 49 appointed by the British Government and presided over by Sir William David Ross.
It reads thus The newspaper and periodical Press of Great Britain consists of over 4000 publications ranging from newspapers famous throughout the world to the journals of obscure societies.
We find it also difficult to agree with the submission made on behalf of the Ist respondent that since the law reports are going to be preserved by the lawyers as reference books after getting them rebound subsequently they should be treated as books.
It may be that the decisions contained in these law reports may cease to be items of news after some time but when they are received by the subscribers they do possess the character of works containing news.
784 Strong reliance was placed on behalf of the Ist respondent on the decision of the High Court of Orissa in PSV Iyer vs Commissioner of Sales Tax Orissa AIR 1960 Orissa 221 in which the question that arose for consideration was whether a law journal Cuttack Law Times which was a non official monthly journal containing the decisions of the Orissa High Court the Orissa Board of Revenue and also of the Supreme Court was a newspaper and if it was a newspaper whether it was competent for the Legislature of the State of Orissa to levy sales tax on the sale of the said journal.
The said question arose in that form in view of the language of Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which read as follows 54.
 After referring to the definition of the expression newspaper  in the Press and Registration of Books Act 1867 the Indian Post Offices Act 1898 the Parliamentary Proceedings Protection of Publication Act 1956 the Delivery of Books and Newspapers Act 1956 the  etc.
Accordingly the High Court of Orissa held that the sale of Cuttack Law Times which according to it was not a newspaper could be taxed by the State Legislature under Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.
We are of the view that the law reports published by the Ist respondent are newspapers and the employees employed by the Ist respondent in their production or publication of the said law reports should be extended the benefit of the orders passed by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations made by the Palekar Award.
SL Appeal allowed.
