4339 4186  4176 77 of 1984.
450 45285 A 473  47484 A Harish Salve Ravinder Narain PK Ram and DN Mishra for the Appellant.
The appellant had filed its price lists in respect of the same.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
The Tribunal therefore accepted the revenue s contention and restored the order of the Asst.
Collector.
On behalf of the appellant Shri Salve contended that the Tribunal had failed to appreciate the admitted factual position that the fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufactured by the appellant is sold in bulk and is capable of being so sold.
The said drums were sup plied by the customers for the purpose of filling the fusel oilStyrene Monomer.
The Asstt.
Learned Attorney General submitted that this Court had no occasion in that decision to consider the question which arises in the present case namely whether the cost of packing materials would have to be included in the assessable value of the goods when goods are delivered in packed conditions.
3 SCR 123.
Section 4 of the Act provides for the valuation of excisable goods for purposes of charging of duty of excise.
Explanation.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that the language of clause d of sub section 4 of section 4 of the Act made it clear beyond doubt that in cases where the Act provides for excise duty with reference to value of the excisable goods while determining the value of such goods the cost of packing where the excisable goods are delivered at the time of removal in packed condition would have to be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods.
Drums had been supplied by the buyers.
It has been so held by this Court in Bombay Tyre International s case supra.
It was conceivable that the wholesale dealer who takes delivery might have its depot at a very short distance only from the factory gate or may have such transport arrangements available that damage or injury to the cigarettes could be avoided.
There was no evidence that there was any necessity of pack ing or putting these in drums prior to their sale.
The completely manufactured product was stored in tanks.
In the premises the value of the drums with regard to the fusel oilstyrene monomer irrespective of whether these were supplied by the assessee or not are not includible in the assessable value of the Styrene Monomer.
In the aforesaid view of the matter the appeals are allowed and the orders of the Tribunal are set aside.
