From the Judgment and Order dated 2671988 of the Allahabad High Court in Review Application No 27W of 1988.
In the year 1972 he was declared unfit by a Medical Board and was therefore inval idated from IAF The Government of India issued a scheme for the benefit of ex military officials.
Under that scheme the ex military officials were appointed on Contract basis for a fixed term which could be extended from time to time subject to the suitability of the official concerned but not beyond 58 years of age.
the date of assumption if it is not terminated earlier by giving a one month s notice by the Hon ble Gover nor or on paying one month s salary in lieu thereof or by giving one month s notice by the Officer.
 The respondent was required to furnish his acceptance of the terms and conditions contained in the said order includ ing the above term relating to the period of appointment and on his accepting the terms and conditions he was appointed as the Secretary in the District Soldiers Board in the district of Unnao in the State of Uttar Pradesh .
The said term was extended retrospectively first upto 20th August 1982 by an order passed in September 1981 and it was again extended upto 31st March 1983 by an order made in February 1983.
Again the term was extended upto 30th of August 1985 by an order dated 1st June 1983.
All these orders of exten sion were couched almost in the same language.
ADM141 Dated 3131982 on the above subject I am directed to say that the terms of the officers mentioned under para 2 who were appointed wef.
the date mentioned in para 4 has expired.
During the extended period of the contract conditions of service of officers shall remain same as are mentioned under their Appointment Order.
But on 2931985 the service of the 1st Respondent was terminated by the issue of a notice and payment of one month s salary.
The High Court further issued a direction to the effect that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service.
It is on this basis that the High court had while setting aside the order of termination by its order dated 2431988 directed that the respondent was entitled to salary upto the period he was entitled to remain in service and further observed that it was open for the opposite parties to consider the claim of the respondent for continu ation in service or of fresh appointment and no observations in this regard were made by the Court.
TNA Appeal allowed.
