12676 77 of 1985 etc.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India RF Nariman PH Parekh NN Keshwani Mrs H Wahi and RN Keshwani for the Petitioners.
Provided that i the holder of a Parwana granted under these rules shall pay royalty at the rate of fifty percent of the rate of royalty specified in the said schedule.
ii no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year.
iv Royalty shall be recoverable in whole rupees fraction fifty paise and above to be rounded upwards to a whole rupee and fraction below fifty paise shall be ignored and fixing the royalty payable by the lessees in respect of minor minerals known as Black Trap and Hard Murrum at Rs7 per metric tonne by amending schedule of the Rules which was being levied at Rs 4 till the date of the said amendment.
by notification in the Official Gazette declare to be a minor mineral.
Section 9 of the act empowers the Central Government to levy royalty in respect of the minerals which are won by the mining lease holders under the Act at the rates prescribed in the Second Schedule to the Act.
1 The State Government may by notifi cation in the Official Gazette make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected therewith.
2 Until rules are made under sub section 1 my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
3 The holder of a mining lease or any other mineral concession granted under any rule made under sub section 1 410 shall pay royalty or dead rent whichever is more in respect of minor minerals removed or consumed by him or by his agent manager employee contractor or sub lessee at the rate prescribed for the time being in the rules framed by the State Government in respect of minor minerals Provided that the State Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any minor mineral for more than once during any period of three years.
 It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
In exercise of the said power under section 15 the Government of Gujarat promulgated the Gujarat Minor Minerals Rules 1966 which are referred to as the Rules as stated above.
The original rule 21 was substituted by new rule 21 by the issue of impugned notification on 26 6 1985 which provides that a holder of a quarry lease or any other mineral conces sion granted under the Rules shall pay royalty in respect of minor minerals provided in column 2 of the Schedule removed or consumed by him or by his agent manager employee contractor or sub lessee from the leased area at the rates specified in column 3 of the said Schedule.
The minerals belong to the Government and if anybody wants to have the right as a lessee to exploit the mines in question to the exclusion of all others and to remove the minerals with a view to making profit he has to pay a royalty imposed in accordance with law.
We do not therefore find any substance in the contention urged by Shri Nariman.
We find no substance in this contention too.
Many a time absence of such classi fication may itself result in the invalidation of the law or rule.
