 Criminal Appeal No 8 18 of 1979.
A No 4 of 1977.
AS Nambiar and KR Nambiar for the Appellant.
V Krishnamurthy for the Respondent.
This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 27101979 of the High Court of Madras con firming the conviction of the appellant under section 161 I PC and under section 336 52 read with section 51d of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
The latter made a complaint to PW 6 who thereupon arranged a trap.
As instructed PW 1 was ready with ten rupees currency notes.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant was not challenged.
It was also urged that the appellant being new in the office could exert little influence on the Principal and the whole story is therefore improbable.
PW 6 has stated at the time of the seizure the explanation offered by the appellant was that PW 1 had returned the loan and that he had given the money for the Dipawali.
The order made was not disclosed to PW 1 and till 22101975 the file itself was kept by the appellant in his personal custody.
This conduct of the appellant is clearly incon sistent with the transaction of loan or return of money by PW 1 338 This Court observed in Dhanvantrai Balwantrai Desai vs State of Maharashtra AIR 1964 SC 575 as under Where any gratification other than legal gratification or any valuable thing is proved to have been received by an accused person the court is required to draw a presumption that the person received that thing as a motive of reward such as is mentioned in section 161 IPC Therefore the Court has no choice in the matter once it is established that the accused person has received a sum of money which was not due to him as a legal remuneration.
A fact is said to be proved when its existence is directly established or when upon the material before it the Court finds its existence to be so probable that a reasonable man would act on the supposition that it exists.
Unless there fore the explanation is supported by proof the presumption created by the provision cannot be said to be rebutted.
It is accordingly dismissed.
NVK Appeal dismissed.
