TS Krishnamurthy lyer MJ Paul and Kailash Vasudev for the Appellant.
The property which is the subject matter of the present dispute originally formed part of an extent of land situat ed on Mount Road Madras bearing door Nos 2 and 3 and measuring 41 grounds and 2005 sq.
The first lease Ext.
The rent as per lease deed was Rs200 per month.
On 20765 the LIC moved two applications being HRC Nos 3310 and 3311 of 1965 in the court of the Rent Con troller Sri A Varadarajan who later became a Judge of the this Court for fixation of a fair rent for each of the premises.
In respect of item 2 the fair rent claimed was Rs326650 as against Rs200 pm payable under the lease deed.
The Rent Controller was therefore held to have had juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect of the premises.
OSA 62 of 1973 was therefore allowed to that extent.
1979 is from the order of the Division Bench rejecting the appellant s claim for arrears of rent in respect of item No 1 of the property set out in Schedule A to the plaint based on the difference between the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller and the rent payable therefore under exhibit P 1.
They clearly make out that the superstruc tures put up by the lessee under exhibit P 1 were not included in the property conveyed under the terms of exhibit P 3 and that whatever may be the rights of the LIC to evict the tenant with liberty to demolish the superstructure on the termination of the lease it had no property in the super structure so long as the lease subsisted.
That the Rent Controller s jurisdic tion on this issue is limited is clear from the proviso to section 101 of the Act.
In order to decide whether the denial of the landlord s title by the tenant is bona fide the Rent Controller may have to go into the tenant s contentions on the issue but he is not to decide the question finally.
One practical test would be to determine if that particular matter would not be a matter in respect of which the civil court would have jurisdiction.
It has long been held that a question of title in a Small Cause suit can be regarded as incidental only to the substantial issue in the suit and cannot operate 8as res judicata in a subsequent suit in which the question of title is directly raised  .
The appeal is therefore dismissed.
In the circumstances however we make no order as to costs.
