C No 677 of 1988.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
Kapil Sibal Additional Solicitor General Ms A Subha shini and K Swamy for the Respondents.
The grounds on which the vires of the provisions is attacked are that the section gives an unguided unchanelised and arbitrary power to the State Government to include any substance as poison for the purpose of restriction to be imposed on the posses sion for sale and sale of the same.
It was further contended that the restriction imposed on possession for sale and sale were not reasonable restrictions.
In exercise of this power by the Notification No F 104472 fin.
 According to them therefore the substance manufactured by them would not come within the amended Rules.
Though in the beginning the petitioners were contending that in substance manufactured by them did not come within Rule 2x2 and there were some correspondence in this regard when the competent authority held that the substance manufactured by the petitioners would come within the definition of thinner  as contained in Rule 2x2 of the Rules the petitioners did not question the finding on any material.
Before us also they had not placed any materi al to show that the finding was wrong or that the substance would not come within Rule 2x2.
Originally the Act contained a schedule in which the list of substances declared as poisons were listed.
Later when Delhi Poisons Rules 1926 were made in exercise of the powers under the Act those list of substances were included in the list enumerated in Rule 2 thereof.
Section 5 of the Act the con stitutional validity of which is questioned reads as fol lows 5.
 It was a law in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and as such continued in force.
The Act is intended to regulate the importation possession and sale of poisons.
Section 5 of the Act deals with presumption and states that any substance specified as a poison in a Rule or noti fication issued under the Act shall be deemed to be a po ison  for purposes of the Act.
223 That Section enables the State Government to make Rules generally to carry out the purposes and objects of the Act.
It is those substances which the Govern ment consider its possession for sale or sale to be regulat ed in the interest of health and safety of the society.
This limitation is inherent in the scheme of the Act itself.
A substance may be a deadly poison or a valuable medicine according to how and how much is taken.
It states that the State Government may by rule regulate the posses sion of any specified poison in any local area in which the use of such poison for the purpose of committing murder or mischief by poisoning cattle appears to it to be of such frequent occurrence as to render restriction on the posses sion thereof desirable.
In many cases deaths have also occurred due to drinking such substance.
It is in exercise of this power Rule 13 was amended by substituting the old Rule by the following Rule 13 1 All poisons kept for sale by any licence holder under these rules except those kept by a chemist druggist or compounder for the purchase of dispensing or compounding in compliance with the prescription of medical or veterinary practitioner shall be kept in a box almirah room or building according to the quantity maintained which shall be secured by lock and key and in which no sub stance shall be placed other than poisons possessed in accordance with a licence granted under the Act and each poison shall be kept within such box almirah room or building in a separate closed receptacle of glass metal or earthenware.
ii All poisons  mentioned in clause x of rule 2 shall be kept in a room or building according to quantity maintained which shall be secured by lock and key in a separate receptacle of glass metal and earthenware etc.
Every such room building and every such receptacle shall be marked with the word poison  in red character both English and vernacular with the name of the poison .
It is a busi ness which can be termed even as inherently dangerous to health and safety of society in view of the rampant misuse and sale to the poor weak and helpless as an intoxicant.
