KN Rajagopala Sastri R H Dhebar and D Gupta for the appellant.
February 23.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 321 and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act hereinafter called the Travancore Act.
In C A 26058 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
The assesse made a profit in Travancore State and incurred a loss in the State of Cochin and sought to deduct this loss from the profit of Travancore State thus showing a net profit of Rs 2643.
On an application of the assessee the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the loss of Rs 27709 arising in Cochin State could be set off against the profit of Rs 38998 arising in Travancore State   and was answered in favour of the assessee.
Indian Act.
Sections in brackets are the corresponding sections of the Indian Act.
Rhondda Urban Council vs Taff Vale Railway 2.
2  258.
It may be mentioned that in the majority of cases decided in India the proviso to section 241 of the Indian Act has been construed in a manner contrary to the submissions made on behalf of the Revenue.
Section 3 provided for the charge of income tax in respect of the total income of the previous year.
2 1922 1 Ch 517.
Where as in the present case the language of the main enactment is clear and unambiguous a proviso can have no repercussion on the interpretation of the main enactment so as to exclude from it by implication what clearly falls within its express terms .
267 exception to the main enactment and exclude something which otherwise would have been within the section.
Vide also Corporation of The City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada 1.
The mere fact that the word  income  is not used does not justify the construction.
2 of section 24 of the Indian Act section 24 2          provided that a where the loss sustained is a loss of profits and gains of a business or vocation to which the first proviso to sub section 1 is applicable and the profits and gains of that business profession or vocation are under the provisions of clause c of sub section 2 of section 14 exempt from tax such loss shall not be set 11946 AC 32 37.
Appeals dismissed.
