Appeal No 381 of 1966.
 J was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J HIDAYATULLAH.
 The order was made by the Chairman of the Board Mr R C Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
Apart from the relief of quashing the order of May 19 1965 the appellants sought the  issue of a writ restraining the Company Law Board and the Inspectors from giving effect to the order dated May 19 1965 and also sought some other incidental reliefs.
Appellant No 2 was appointed Managing Director of the Company from December 5 1961 and his appointment and remuneration were approved by the Central Government on July 30 1962.
According to the appellants before entering into a collaboration agreement with Ms L A Mitchell Ltd the appellant No 2 Balasubramanian was negotiating with a German firm named Kali Chemie A G of Hanover for obtaining their collaboration.
The firm of T T Krishnamachari  Sons approached appellant No 2 for the grant of sole selling agency of the products of the plant to be established in collaboration with Kali Chemie.
Appellant No 2 did not agree to this with the result that the company s negotiations with Kali Chemie broke down.
He also wanted us to bear in mind the sequence in which certain events occurred and said that these would indicate that the former Finance Minister must have been instrumental in having an order under section 237b made by the Chairman of the Board.
We were however not impressed by this argument.
We find no substance in the argument.
He has specifically denied that it was issued at the instance of the second respondent.
In paragraph 13 he has stated that without prejudice to his submissions in the earlier paragraphs he would reply to allegations contained in the various paragraphs of the writ petition.
b of the section may have been committed.
Coming to the third point of Mr Setalvad pointed out that four ex Directors of the Company who had resigned submitted a 327 memorandum to Mr T T Krishnamachari while he was holding the office of Finance Minister in which grave allegations were made concerning the affairs of the Company and the management of the Company by the second appellant.
But it was not solely on the basis of this memorandum that action was taken by the Board.
