Appeal No 696 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated September 13 1963 of the Madras High Court in Writ Appeal No IO of 1962.
P Ram Reddy and A V Rangam for the appellant.
R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
The question of law involved in this appeal is whether the purchaser of business carried on by a dealer as defined in the Madras General Sales Tax Act 1939 Madras Act No IX of 1939 hereinafter called the Act  can be made liable for arrears of sales tax due from the dealer in respect of transactions of sale which took place before the transfer of the business under Rule 21 A of the Rules framed in exercise of the powers conferred on the State Government by section 19 of the Act.
The respondent purchased by a registered instrument dated October 5 1956 the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the name All India Trading Company.
Purushottam Raju was the sole proprietor of the business and had been assessed to sales tax in respect of his turnover for the years 1948 49 and 1949 50.
The assessee paid some amounts towards sales tax thus determined but there remained some arrears of sales tax ie Rs 3836 4 0 for 1948 49 and Rs 1218 1 9 for 1949 50.
The respondent appealed to the Commercial Tax Officer as well as to the Board of Revenue but the appeals were dismissed.
The respondent thereafter moved the Madras High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the orders of the Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.
The Division Bench consisting of section Ramachandra Iyer CJ and Ramakrishnan J reversed the judgment of the Single Judge holding that Rule 21 A of the Sales Tax Rules was illegal and ultra vires and the respondent was not liable to pay the sales tax due from his predecessor in title Purushottam Raju.
This appeal is brought by special leave from the judgment of the Division Bench of the Madras High Court dated September 13 1963 in Writ Appeal No 10 of 1962.
Rule 21 A was framed by the State Government under the rule making power granted to it under section 191 and 2 of the Act.
Rule 21 A reads as follows  When the ownership of the business of a dealer liable to pay the tax under the Act is entirely transferred any tax payable in respect of such business and remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer shall be recoverable from the transferor or the transferee as if they were the dealers liable to pay such tax provided that the recovery from the transferee of the arrears of taxes due prior to the date of the transfer shall be only to the extent of the value of the business he obtained by transfer.
1 The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
It is manifest that a person who purchases a business as a dealer  can be assessed to sales tax only in respect of his turnover and under the scheme of the charging provision of the Act the purchaser of the business has nothing to do with the sales effected by the seller of the business.
The turnover in respect of such sales remains therefore the turnover of the transferor and not of the transferee.
By the amending Act of 1959 Act 1 of 1959 an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of sales tax due from the transferor.
The liability is definitely created by sections 3 and 4 of the Income tax Act which are the charging sections and the assessment order under section 23 only quantifies the liability which has already been definitely and finally created by the charging sections and the provision in regard to assessment relates only to the machinery of taxation.
In our opinion the principle of these decisions applies to the interpretation of the Act in the present case.
It follows therefore that Rule 21 A is beyond the rule making power of the State Government either under section 191 or section 192c of the Act.
In the present case the registered instrument by which the business was transferred to the respondent is dated October 5 1956 and the amending Act has therefore no application.
