Appeal No 390 of 1966.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated January 11 13 1964 of the Industrial Tribunal Orissa Cuttack in Industrial Dispute Case No 8 of 1962.
Instead what the Tribunal did was to work out the minimum wages which should be paid on an entirely different basis.
It was also urged in the alternative that even in adopting the latter course the Tribunal committed an error inasmuch as in making the calculation the Tribunal only tried to neutralise about 36 per cent of the cost of living 9n the basis of the rise in Price Index instead 669 of permitting neutralisation to the extent of at least 90 which could have been done when fixing the minimum wages for the owest class of workmen.
The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co Limited.
The Tribunal found that there are only two other paper mills in the region.
The Titaghur Paper Mill No 3 started production only in April 1960 while the JK Paper Mills at Rayagada started production in 1961 62.
Even the profits earned were much smaller.
On these facts the Tribunal held that it would not be proper to compare the wage structure for these Paper Mills with that of the Company.
On this finding it is clear that the region cure industry principle laid down in the ease of French Motor Car Co Ltd 1 could not have been applied by the Tribunal when fixing the wages in the Company.
That situation was envisaged as occurring whenever the particular concern in question happens to be already paying the highest wages in its particular line of business.
 In the light of these views which were brought to the notice of the Tribunal the Tribunal proceeded to consider the minimum wages paid by three Collieries Orient Colliery Ibe Colliery and Himgiri Rampur Colliery the Rourkela Steel Plant the Cement Factory at Rajgangpur and the Indian Aluminum Company Hirakud which the Tribunal found were situated not very far away from the place where the Company had its factory.
In fact the Tribunal also accepted them as being comparable and that is why in its conclusion the Tribunal held that in its opinion it would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region.
parts of the country.
in the same region.
