It functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
They served a Charter of Demands in July 1974 on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the State Government made a reference of the dispute under section 101 d Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra for adjudication.
170 The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
There was no separate dearness allowance until January 1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
Nothing those facts the Tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
The need for revising the wage scales was not disputed by the appellant.
In proceeding to revise the wage structure the Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
Holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the Tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden.
For the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the appellant the Tribunal followed Unichem Laboratories vs Their Workmen1 where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account of taxation development rebate and depreciation.
But it rejected the demand of the Union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant s financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
173 Two days after the award was made an application was made by the Union stating In the said award your Honour has observed at the end of para 22 In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance.
After fixing the salary of the employees in the scales as above the employees should be given increments in the new scales as noted below i Employees who have completed 5 years or more as on 1st January 1976 3 increments.
ii Employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st January 1976 2 increments.
iii All other employees with more than one year s service shall be given one increment.
The Tribunal has given satisfactory reason for adopting a different mode and we are not disposed to interfere with the award of the Tribunal.
