Civil Appeal Nos3677 3680 of 1986 Etc.
4053 to 4056 of 1985.
These appeals raise common questions of law and may therefore be disposed of by a common judgment.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
By the time the proviso came into force 36 permits had been granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority and 14 remained to be granted.
By an order dated February 1 1984 the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
A number of appeals were preferred to the Karnataka State Transport Appellate Tribunal.
It was on that ground that the grant of two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation was set aside though the Appellate Tribunal had no doubt regarding the resources and ability of that corporation to operate the tourist services.
It was on that ground again it was so stated by the Tribunal that some of the appellants 1012 before the Tribunal had to be denied the grant of permits though otherwise they would have been entitled to the grant of permits having regard to their expertise experience and resources.
The Tribunal rejected their appeals regretfully.
A large number of applicants filed writ petitions in the High Court.
The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and some other private operators have filed these appeals by special leave of this Court under article 136 of the Constitution.
Shri Shanti Bhushan learned counsel for the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation Dr Chitley learned counsel for some of the private operators Shri Datar learned counsel for the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation Shri Sampat and Shri Javali learned counsel for other private operators submitted that the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court were wrong in distinguishing the decision of this court in Sher Singh s case and that the true position was that on a correct interpretation of the proviso to sec.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
Shri CS Vaidyanathan learned counsel for some of the preferred private operators urged that the view taken by the High Court and the State Transport Appellate Tribunal was correct and that the fourth sub clause of the proviso to section 637 did not offend article 14 of the Constitution.
In the second place we have no indication as to the manner in which the approval of the Central Government is to be sought and granted and the considerations which are expected to weigh with the Central Government.
637 of the .
In the result we set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to hear the appeals in the light of what we have said.
