it case for initiating any procee d ings for contempt against the respondents.
109F  ORIGINAL JURISDICTION Writ Petition Civil No 530 of 1983 etc.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
VA Bobde Shyam Mudaliar VM Tarkunde GL Sangh i AK Sanghi Mrs R Karanjawala Mrs Meenakshi Karanjawa la NM Popli and VJ Francis for the Petitioners.
The three civ il miscellaneous petitions referred to above on the other ha nd have been made by the appellants of Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 asserting that the direction given by this Court on 2 nd February 1981 has not been complied with in the manner as it ought to have been by the respondents and they should be consequently required to comply with the said direction.
The writ petition w as contested by the respondents thereto inter alia on t he ground that under the rules of promotion from Supervisor  A  to Chargeman II first Departmental Promotion Committee at the factory level and then a Departmental Committee at t he Central level screens the service record of each of t he Supervisors A  who comes within the range of eligibili ty and then finally the Director General of Ordnance Factori es draws up a list and sanctions promotions.
The learned Judges who decided the special appeal d id not consider it appropriate to uphold the dismissal of t he writ petition on the technical ground which found favo ur with the learned Single Judge and they went into the meri ts of the respective contentions of the parties.
The learned Judges pointed o ut that it was admitted that the conditions of service applic a ble to the case of the appellants were governed by t he Indian Ordnance Factories Recruitment and Conditions of Service of Class III Personnel Rules 1956 hereinaft er referred to as the Rules framed by the President of Ind ia under Article 309 of the Constitution.
It was further poin t ed out that Rule 8 contemplated that appointments by prom o tion were to be made on the basis of a selection list pr e pared for the different grades by duly constituted Depar t mental Promotion Committees laid down in the said ru le whereas Rule 12 provided that no appointment to the posts to which these rules apply shall be made otherwise than as specified therein.
This was an argument neither pleaded as a ground for the petition nor was raised before the learn ed Single Judge.
Moreover we do not think any case on t he basis of violation of Article 16 of the Constitution can be found in favour of the appellant petitioners only becau se some 99 supervisors equally placed were promoted against the rul es of service.
It reads Heard counsel.
Special leave granted.
Our attention has been invited by learned counsel for bo th the sides to the relevant rules which govern promotion to the post of Chargeman Grade II.
The Gover n ment now appears to insist that in so far as the appellan ts are concerned they cannot be considered for promotion unle ss they complete three years of service.
If a large number of other persons similar ly situated have been promoted as Chargeman Grade II aft er completing two years of service there is no reason why t he appellants should also not be similarly promoted aft er completing the same period of service.
We Therefore direct that the concerned authoriti es will consider the cases of the appellants for promotion as Chargeman Grade II and promote them to the said posts unle ss they are found to be unfit.
If the appellants are promote d they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
There will be no order as to costs.
 It is in view of this order that these matters have been listed before us.
Howeve r merely on completion of two years  service a Supervisor  A  could not claim automatic promotion.
It w as further urged that the petitioners of these writ petitio ns were on the basis of the Rules considered for promotion a nd it is not disputed that all of them have in due course be en promoted as Chargeman II and some of them have even be en promoted to higher posts.
He also brought to our notice a subsequent circular dated 20th January 1966 by the Direct or General of Ordnance Factories who had issued.
or in equivalent grades in the matter of promotion.
62 and 4416ANG dt.
The question of promotion of Diploma holders in MechElec.
Engineering and Ex apprentices serving as Sup r A  Gr.
or equivalent grades.
  it was held by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Ramachandra Shankar Deodhar and Ors.
The matter has been consider ed in a recent decision of this Court in the case of Union of India  Ors.
vs Sh.
Soraasundararn Viswanath  Ors 198 8 3 SC Judgments Today 724 wherein it has been held It is well settled that the norms regarding recruitment a nd promotion of officers belonging to the Civil Services can be laid down either by a law made by the appropriate Legisl a ture or by rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India or by means of executive instru c tions issued under Article 73 of the Constitution of Ind ia in the case of Civil Services under the Union of India a nd under Article 162 of the Constitution of India in the ca se of Civil Services under the State Governments.
If there is a conflict between the executive instructions and the rul es made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India the rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India prevail and if there is a co n flict between the rules made under the proviso to Artic le 309 of the Constitution of India and the law made by t he appropriate Legislature the law made by the appropria te Legislature prevails.
Since Rule 8 in t he instant case prescribed a procedure for making promotion t he said procedure could not be abrogated by the executi ve instruction dated 6th November 1962.
The right to promotion on the oth er hand was to be governed by the Rules.
The ord er dated 28th December 1965 which provided a minimum period of service of three years in the lower grade for promotion to the next higher grade and the circular dated 20th Janua ry 1966 which provided that promotions in future will be e f fected in accordance with the normal rules and not merely on completion of 2 years  satisfactory continuous service h ad the effect of doing away with the accelerated chance of promotion and relegating Supervisors A  in the matter of promotion to the normal position as it obtained under t he Rules.
The effect of this change obviously was th at now only fifty per cent vacancis in the post of Depu ty Collector being available in place of all the vacancies it was to take almost double the time for many other allocat ed Tehsildars to get promoted as Deputy Collectors.
A rule which merely affects chances of promoti on cannot be regarded as varying a condition of service.
This it was urged affected the ir chances of promotion which were protected under the provi so to Section 115 sub section 7.
 It i s therefore clear that neither the Rules of July 30 195 9 nor the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector divisionwise varies the conditions of service of the petitioners to their disadvantage.
 The same view was reiterated in Mohammad Shujat Ali a nd Ors.
vs Union of India  Ors.
Annexure I to the said affidavit gives a break up of the total diplo ma holders recruited in the Department due to acute need of Ordnance Department following the chinese aggression.
It indicates that approximately 125 diploma holders were r e cruited in 1962 550 in 1963 250 in 1964 150 in 1965 a nd 100 in 1966 the total number of such recruits being appro x imately 1175.
It cannot be disputed that the Director General of Ordnance Factories who had issued the circular dated 6 th November 1962 had the power to issue the subsequent circ u lar dated 20th January 1966 also.
Apparently after t he coming into force of the 107 order dated 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January 1966 promotions could not be made just on compl e tion of 2 years  satisfactory service under the earli er circular dated 6th November 1962 the same having be en superseded by the later circular.
The fact that some Superviso rs A  had been promoted before the coming into force of t he order dated 28th December 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January 1966 could not therefore constitute the basis f or an argument that those Supervisors A  whose cases came up for consideration for promotion thereafter and who we re promoted in due course in accordance with the rules we re discriminated against.
In paragraph 2i it has be en stated that during 1962 63 due to sudden expansion of Or d nance Factories Organisation in the wake of Chinese aggre s sion a large number of posts of Chargeman 11 and other pos ts were created and as a result thereof persons already in service as Supervisors A  were promoted to the posts of Chargeman II on completion of 2 years  service.
It h as further been stated therein that after the newly creat ed posts were thus filled by promotion chances of promotion of those who were appointed subsequently diminished and f or want of sufficient number of 108 vacancies as Chargeman II they could not be promoted to th at post soon after the completion of 2 years  service.
These writ petitions therefore deserve to be dismissed.
The reliefs which they ha ve claimed have already been indicated above.
The grievance of the petitio n ers however is that this promotion tantamounts to impl e mentation of the order of this Court dated 2nd Februar y 1981 only on paper inasmuch as they have not been grant ed the difference of back wages and promotion to higher pos ts on the basis of their back date promotion as Chargeman I I.
As already noticed earlier certain writ petitions filed in Madhya Pradesh High Court were allowed by that Court on 4 th April 1983 relying on the judgment of this Court dated 2 nd February 1981 in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981.
In this view of t he matter to put them at par it would be appropriate that t he appellants in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 may also be granted the same relief which was granted to the 109 petitioners in the writ petitions before the Madhya Prade sh High Court.
At the most they would be entitled to refixation of the ir present salary on the basis of the notional seniority gran t ed to them in different grades so that their present sala ry is not less than those who are immediately below them.
T he petitioners are also entitled to get their present sala ry re fixed after giving them notional seniority so that t he same is not lower than those who are immediately bel ow them.
In the circu m stances of the case however there shall be no order as to costs.
RSS Petitions dismissed.
