The case of the appellant is that the said fusel oil is a com pletely manufactured article and after completion of its manufacture it is stored in storage tanks duly approved for this purpose.
It is at this stage that the quantity of fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufactured according to the appel lant is entered in the RG 1 Register maintained for goods manufactured by the appellant.
It is also the case of the appellant that the said fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufac tured by it is sold in bulk and delivered to the customers at the appellant s factory.
The fusel oilStyrene Monomer is also capable of being supplied in road tankers to customers.
The appellant had filed its price lists in respect of the same.
In the said price lists which were duly approved by the Asstt.
Collector the appellant had shown the value of fusel oilStyrene Monomer at the rate at which those were sold in wholesale as naked Ex Works and in bulk.
According to the appellant the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oilStyrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
On 2nd July 1983 a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
Replies were duly filed to the said show cause notices by the appellant contending inter alia that as the drums were supplied by the buyer value thereof could not be included in the assessable value.
On the 11th August 1983 two orders were passed by the Assist ant Collector one in relation to each of the aforesaid show cause notices.
The Assistant Collector included the value of the drums in the assessable value of the said fusel oilStyrene Monomer.
Appeals were filed by the assessee.
There was a further appeal to the Tribunal.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer there fore the value had to be included in the assessable value.
Collector.
The appellant was not a manufacturer of drums.
There is no room he contended for any intendment.
There is no equity about a tax it was submitted.
There is no presump tion as to tax.
The Asstt.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
According to the learned Attorney General the fact that 90 of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10 represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
