March 15.
Their father Sardar Nand Singh who was 42 330 found entitled to quasi permanent allotment of 40 standard acres and 5 14 units of land was given quasipermanent allotment in another village named Humbran in the same district.
The two villages are however 25 miles or so distant from each other.
This application was rejected by the Assistant Custodian on July 23 1951 on the ground that no land was available in the village Raikot.
On October 7 1952 the appellants preferred a revision application before the Custodian General.
During the pendency of the revision application the Additional Custodian for the State of Punjab cancelled the allotment of fourteen quasi permanent allottees of the village Karodian in the same district on the ground that these persons were entitled to allotment of suburban land a had been wrongly fitted in the village Karodian.
Acting suo motu the Additional Custodian made an order on October 31 1952 cancelling the order of allotment of land in the village Raikot made in favour of the appellants in the year 1949 and instead allotted to them land in Karodian in substitution of the lands at Raikot and of the lands allotted to their father.
Consequent upon the cancellation of the appellants  allotment of the Raikot land they were allotted to respondents 2 to 4.
By the order dated November 8 1957 the Deputy Custodian General dismissed the appellants  application.
The appellants have therefore come up to this Court by way of appeal with special leave.
In that case the Court has held that the powers of the Custodian General to deal with matters of this kind have been taken away by the  and that these powers now vest in another authority and that there is no provision for continuing the pro ceedings which had been commenced under the  but had not been concluded.
Mr Achhruram for the appellants challenged the correctness of this decision.
What is urged by Mr Khanna on behalf of the Custodian General is that this is the effect of the provisions of sections 122 and 19 of the Act.
But the consequence of the publication of the notification by the Central Government under section 121 of the with respect to any property or a class of property would be to divest the Custodian completely of his right in the property flowing from section 8 of the  and vest that property in the Central Government.
Sub section.
4 of section 12 of the 1954 Act provides that all evacuee property acquired under that section shall form part of the compensation pool.
Sub section.
2 of section 16 empowers the Central Government to appoint such officers as it deems fit or to constitute such authority or corporation as it deems fit for the purpose of managing and disposing of the properties forming part of the compensation pool.
Section 19 of the Act provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or any other law for the time being in force but subject to the rules that may be made under the Act the managing officer or managing corporation may cancel any allotment etc under which any evacuee property acquired under the Act is held or 334 occupied by a person whether such allotment or lease was granted before or after the commencement of the Act.
No doubt under section 10 of the the Custodian is empowered to manage evacuee property and in exercise of his power he will be competent to allot such property to any person or to cancel an allotment or lease made in favour of a person.
As already stated the powers conferred by sub section.
Therefore they must prevail over the provisions of B 10 of the .
It is true that there is nothing on record to show that a managing officer was appointed with respect to the Raikot properties acquired under the notification dated March 24 1955.
It is not disputed that the appellants ceased to hold and had lost possession of the Raikot lands before the publication of this notification.
336 Mr Achhruram then referred to the Conditions on which allotments of land may be made under the notification referred to in sub section.
He said that the cancellation of the allotment in favour of the appellants was impermissible inasmuch as it was not based upon any of the grounds set out in the 6th condition.
That may or may not be so.
That rule reads as follows Allotments which are the subject matter of dispute.
Moreover this rule applies to a proceeding before an authority created by the and not to an authority created by the .
There is therefore no substance in this argument.
Finally Mr Achhruram referred to section 17 of the 1954 Act and to r 102 of the Rules framed thereunder and said that the powers of the managing officers appointed under the Act are confined only to properties which are entrusted to them for management and not with respect to any other property.
Sub section.
Sub section.
The argument is that unless there is such entrustment the managing officer or managing corporation has no function to perform with respect to evacuee property.
In the first place the section confers the particular powers On managing officers or managing corporations only and no one else.
What we have said in regard to section 17 would apply 339 here also.
He then says that this rule restricts the powers of a managing officer or a managing corporation in the matter of cancellation of allotment in the sense that it permits cancellation only on certain specified grounds and therefore it cannot be said that section 191 of the Act is completely in conflict with section 10 of the in so far as the question of cancellation of allotment is concerned.
The appeal is accordingly dismissed.
