March 22.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SUBBA RAO J.
Samanta purchased the leasehold interest of Banerji and thereafter on November 23 1900 it appears that Samanta bad surrendered his rights under the previous lease in favour of the Raja and taken a fresh lease of the same 300 bighas on a reduced rent.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal granted a lease of 96 bighas out of his 400 bighas to one D M Mathews.
Walji Kheta represented the defendants.
The defendants denied that they had encroached upon the plaintiff   coal land and stated that the suit was barred by limitation.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
The southern boundary of this leasehold is given as the northern boundary limit of the leasehold land of Girish Chandra Samanta and others and the western boundary is shown as the eastern boundary of Chatkari Jorh as per the map annexed.
As the plan is a part of the lease deed it is clear from the plan that the northern boundary of the leasehold of Samanta is the said line.
One interesting feature is that a map has been referred to in each of the documents and the said map shows that the line drawn from point A to point B is the boundary between the two leaseholds.
The map exhibit 3b annexed to the lease deed executed in favour of the respondents  predecessor in interest clearly demarcates the boundary line between the holdings of the appellant and the respondents and according to that plan the disputed extent falls within the boundary of the respondents  holding.
It is well settled that a map referred to in a lease should be treated as incorporated in the lease and as 499 forming part of the said document.
The next question is whether the suit was barred by limitation.
On appeal the High Court accepted the finding.
It is common case that article 48 of the Limitation Act governs the period of limitation in respect of the present suit.
It reads  Period Time from Description of suit.
of which period limitation begins to run.
sion itis.
 The article says that a suit for recovery of specific movable property acquired by conversion or for compensation for wrongful taking or detaining of the suit property should be filed within three years from the date when the person having the right to the possession of the property first learns in whose possession it is.
He denied that he had any knowledge of the said two facts.
But to say that no duty is cast upon the plaintiff even to allege the date when they had knowledge of the defendant s possession of the converted property and that the entire burden is on the defendant is contrary to the tenor of the article in the Limitation Act and also to the rules of evidence.
Learned counsel 1 AIR 1946 Cal.
848 860.
We cannot therefore hold that the findings of the courts are vitiated by an error of law by the burden of proof having been wrongly thrown on the appellant.
We accept the findings of the High Court that the respondents had knowledge of the appellant s encroachment of their coal mines only in the year 1941 which was within three years of the date of the filing of the suit.
The learned Subordinate Judge accepted the case of the plaintiffs and held that the coal that was left in the encroached area was entirely lost to them by being rendered unworkable.
We therefore accept the concurrent finding of fact arrived at by the courts below in respect to this issue.
No other point was raised.
Appeal dismissed.
