926 1960.
September 27.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
Ms.
Daulatram Rameshwarlal a firm registered under the Indian Partnership Act referred to later in this judgment as sellers  are registered dealers under section 11 of the Bombay Sales Tax Act.
If therefore in the present sales the property in the goods passed to the buyers on shipment that is after they had crossed the customs frontier the sales must be held to have taken place in the course of export and the exemption under article 2861b will come into operation.
The sellers  case is that these were sales on FOB contracts.
Along with this fact we have to consider however the fact that the bill of lading was retained by the sellers the contract being that payment will be made on the presentation of the bill of lading.
On that definition the time of the export is the time when the goods go out of the territorial limits of India.
Whichever view is taken there is nothing to indicate that the intention to comply with the requirements of el.
52 of the Exports Control Order carries with it an intention that the property should pass to the buyer at the time the goods cross the customs frontier.
We think that the learned judges who heard the appeal in the Bombay High Court were right in their conclusion that the goods remained the sellers  property till the goods had been brought and loaded on board the ship and so the sales were exempted from tax under article 2861b of the Constitution.
In Civil Appeal No 46 of 1959 the appellants  contention is that on a correct interpretation of the provisions of section 10b of the Bombay Sales Tax Act no purchase tax was leviable from them.
b of section 8 has been furnished in respect of such goods and the purchasing dealer does not show to the satisfaction of the Collector that the goods have been despatched by him or by a person to whom he has sold the goods to an address outside the State of Bombay within a period of six months from the date of purchase by the dealer furnishing such certificate .
Mr Sanyal contended that the certificate 933 has to declare only an intention and that if ultimately the actual despatch is made by some person who is not a registered dealer it cannot strictly be said that the declaration has not been carried out.
Appeals dismissed.
