ION Criminal Appeal 89 of 1961.
December 19.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RAGUHBAR DAYAL J.
Sheo Sahai died of the injuries received.
The appellant thereafter proceeded to the Canal Distributory at some distance from the village and had a bath there.
Later on he went to the Police Station Ekdil nine miles away and lodged a report.
He delivered the sword which has been found by the Serologist to be stained with human blood.
The appellant was taken in custody and as a result of the investigation was sent up for trial The appellant denied the allegation that he had caused the death of Sheo Sahai and alleged that he was falsely accused of the offence.
He also denied the other allegations for the prosecution.
He did accordingly.
He was detained at the Police Station till 11 am the next day and was then put up in the lock up.
The Sub Inspector took his thumb impression forcibly on three papers but did not tell him the reason.
The appellant adduced no evidence in support of his statement.
The evidence led by the prosecution consisted of the evidence relating to motive to his extrajudicial confession to one Ujagar Singh when he was having a bath in the Canal to his purchasing the sword and to his delivering it at the police Station after he had dictated the report.
Both the Courts below rightly believed the evidence about the motive and purchase of the sword by the appellant.
On the other hand learned Counsel for the respondent urged that the High Court was wrong in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s extra judicial confession and that the extra judicial confession together with the circumstances relied on by the High Court fully make out the prosecution case against the appellant.
He also urges that such portions of the report which did not amount to a direct admission of the appellant s striking Sheo Sahai with a sword and thereby causing his death were admissible in evidence.
Ajit Singh bears no enmity with the appellant.
In fact none of the prosecution witnesses is alleged to bear enmity with the appellant.
Paley Singh PW 2 and Baij Nath PW 4 depose about the dispute during the game of cards played on June 12 1960.
Kehar Singh PW3.
deposed about the selling of a sword to the appellant on June 13 1960.
The appellant s depositing the sword at the Police Station is deposed by Madho Ram PW 12 and by Sri Kishan Singh Station Officer Ekdil PW 16 in whose presence the appellant had dictated the report.
It is therefore not necessary to rely on the admissions of the appellant in the report with respect to these facts deposed to by the various witnesses whose testimony has been rightly accepted.
We need also consider whether the facts that the accused had a motive to harm Sheo Sahai and that he had purchased a sword a day before the incident and deposited it stained with human blood at the Police Station on the night of the murder are sufficient to establish that it must be the appellant who committed the murder of Sheo Sahai or not as we are of opinion that the High Court erred in rejecting the statement of Ujagar Singh about the appellant s confessing to him that he had murdered Sheo Sahai.
207 In this connection the High Court simply said A perusal of the statement of Ujagar Singh would show that it is very likely that this may have happened.
 With respect to the learned Judges these observations are not very consistent.
If Ujagar Singh s statement made it very likely that what he stated did happen there could not have appeared any improbability in Ujagar Singh s sleeping in his field and meeting the appellant in the manner alleged especially when the learned Judges believed and there was evidence about it that the fields had chari and sugarcane crop at the time.
They damage the leaves of the plants and have no partiality for tall plants alone.
In fact the smaller the plants the easier it must be to graze.
The learned Sessions Judge has discussed the criticism urged before him against the acceptance of the statement of Ujagar Singh and considered 208 it for reasons given not to justify the rejection of Ujagar Singh s statement.
We agree with those reasons.
There is no enmity between Ujagar Singh and the appellant and therefore no good reasons existed for Ujagar Singh to state falsely.
Extra judicial confessions are not usually considered with favour but that does not mean that such a confession coming from a person who has no reason to state falsely and to whom it is made in circumstances which tend to support his statement should not be believed.
The murder was committed in the month of June.
It is not stated by sub Inspector Kishan Singh nor it is alleged that the appellant had on his person or on his clothes blood stains when he presented himself at the Police Station.
This tends to support Ujagar Singh s statement that the appellant had a bath in the Canal at that hour.
Of course this consideration springs out of the supposition that the appellant did commit the murder.
The Canal runs beside Ujagar Singh s field.
Ujagar Singh was on the field for the purpose of watching it against the neel gais trespassing and grazing the crop.
It is not therefore a matter of surprise that he wakes up and proceeds to the spot from where the splashing sound which is supposed to be due to the wading of the neel gais came.
On reaching the Canal bank he observes 209 the person bathing and naturally asks him what.
It is always difficult to find reasons for a person s acting in a certain manner.
We agree with the view of the learned Sessions Judge and do not consider Ujagar Singh s conduct of continuing to remain on his field during the night to be so improbable as to affect his veracity.
We are therefore of opinion that he has been rightly convicted of the offence under section 302 IPC and has been awarded the proper sentence.
We therefore dismiss the appeal.
Appeal dismissed.
