January 29.
This is an appeal by special leave in an industrial matter.
The same day Sankaran protested against his suspension and requested that in any case the departmental inquiry should be expedited.
In that order the appellant informed Sankaran that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if he was retained in the service of the appellant and therefore it considered that no inquiry should be held.
Two witnesses were produced before the tribunal in connection with the alleged misconduct but the tribunal did not rely on them on the ground that the important witnesses namely the Engineer the Secretary and other members of the staff whose evidence would have been of more value had not been produced and no explanation had been given why they were not produced.
or more as daily wages otherwise than under rule 21 he shall be given 14 days notice or be paid 12 days wages.
The claim thus put forward on behalf of the appellant is that it is entitled under r 18a of the Standing orders which is a term of contract between the appellant and its employees to dispense with the service of any employee at any time by just giving 14 days notice or paying 12 days wages.
etc 1.
It was of opinion that even in a case of this kind the requirement of bona fides is essential and if the terminataton of service is a colourable exercise of the power or as a result of victimisation or unfair labour praction the industrial tribunal would have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.
The reason given by the appellant in the order terminating the services of Sankaran of July 8 1958 namely that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if Sankaran were retained in service cannot be accepted at its face value so that the necessity for an inquiry intended to be held for misconduct actually charged might be done away with.
In any case even if the inquiry was not held by the appellant and action was taken under r 18 a it is now well settled in view of the decisions cited above that the employer could defend the action under r 18a by leading evidence before the tribunal to show that there was in fact misconduct and therefore the action taken under r 18a was bona fide and was not colourable exercise of the power under that rule.
Learned counsel for the appellant however relies on the decision of this Court in Parshotam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India.
Appeal dismissed.
