425 M C Setalvad N V Phadke J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and Ravinder Narain for the respondent No 1.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
This appeal arises out of an industrial dispute as regards the age of retirement.
In July.
1947 the Private Limited Company was converted into a Public Limited Company.
It has Branches in Bombay Delhi and Via Madras.
The general practice of the Company both at the Head Office and the Branch Offices appears to have been to retire its employees at the age of 55 though in certain cases the Company in its discretion permitted an employee to continue beyond that age.
In September 1959 an agreement was entered into between the Company and its employees at Calcutta under which the age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
They claimed that no workman should be retired from service before he bad completed 60 years of age.
It is against this decision that the present appeal has been filed by the workmen.
According to this the pensionable age is 70 in two countries 67 in another two 65 in twenty four 60 in seventeen 55 in two and 50 in one.
Thus out of 48 countries for which information was available it was found that in 45 countries the pensionable age was fixed at 60 or more.
Refusal of similar relief to them is likely to create discontent.
It is the endeavour of industrial adjudication to prevent this.
In support of their demand for fixing the age of retirement at 60 the workmen tried to show that in recent years at least the tendency in comparable concerns in Bombay region has been to fix the retirement age at 60.
Reliance was placed for this purpose on the Chart exhibit Cl.
We think therefore that the objection was rightly rejected by the Tribunal.
This Chart shows the age of retirement for 75 concerns.
There is no indication at all as to how long ago the age of retirement in these concerns was fixed at 55 or at 58.
Exhibit U 6 also shows that in 25 of these concerns the clerical and subordinate staff were not organised into trade unions.
Having embarked an this enquiry the Tribunal appears to have taken considerable pains to perform this duty and it has ultimately persuaded itself to hold that no such trend is established in fact.
If this Court had erred in making those pronouncements we would be the first to admit such mistakes and to correct the error.
The very few departures from this practice which the Tribunal has mentioned are in our opinion wholly insufficient to indicate any slowing down of this trend.
What the Tribunal has failed to notice is that instances which may justify a revision of the judicial opinion expressed on an earlier occasion about a particular trend must be strong and unambiguous and they must speak for the period both before and more particularly after the previous finding had been recorded in the matter.
Accordingly the norm for retirement age is fixed at 60.
The Tribunal has referred to these observations but has brushed them aside in a way for which we find no justification.
On a consideration of all the facts and circumstances disclosed by the oral and documentary evidence on this record we have come to the conclusion that the age of retirement of the appellant workmen should be fixed at 60.
Appeal allowed.
