This appeal pursuant to a certificate granted by the Allahabad High Court under section 66A2 of the Income tax Act hereinafter referred to as the Act is directed against the judgment of the High Court in a reference under the Act answering the question referred to it in the negative.
The district of Benaras was formerly a part of Oudh territory.
The British Government granted a sanad of Raj to Raja Chet Singh who in turn gave the Jagir of Parganas Seyedpore and Bhittery in perpetuity to Babu Ausan Singh.
The pension was paid regularly from year to year by the Government to Babu Har Narain Singh and his heirs.
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 43viii of the Income tax Act.
The allowance was in a sense related to the land revenue assessed on the land ie it was fixed as a percentage of the land revenue but the percentage was merely a measure and indicated the source of the right in lieu of which the allowance was given.
 The learned counsel for the respondent Mr A Viswanatha Sastri urges that on its true interpretation the letter dated July 7 1837 showed an arrangement for sharing collections.
We respectfully adopt the reasoning and conclusion of this Court in the case of State of  704 Uttar Pradesh vs Kunwar Sri Trivikram Narain Singh1 and hold that the respondent under the arrangement had no interest in land or in the land revenue payable in respect thereof.
The source of the right in which a fraction of the net income of the trust is to be appropriated by the appellant as his remuneration is not in the right to receive rent or revenue of agricultural lands but rests in the covenant in the deed to receive remuneration for management of the trust.
 It follows from the decisions of the Privy Council and the judgments of this Court cited above that if it is held in this case that the source of the allowance or pension is the arrangement arrived at in 1837.
Mr Sastri sought to distinguish those cases on the ground that the allowance here varied from year to year.
He says that if the assessee s predecessor had received  706 compensation for relinquishing his title to the lands in dispute that would have been a capital receipt and not taxable.
 He therefore asked us to disregard the word pension  in the letter dated July 7 1837 and determine the real character of the payment.
Lord Simon observed Secondly a transaction which on its true construction is of a kind that would escape tax is not taxable on the ground that the same result could be brought about by a transaction in another form which would attract tax.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
It seems to us that where an owner of an estate exchanges a capital asset for a perpetual annuity it is ordinarily taxable income in his hands.
Mr Sastri relying on Perrin vs Dickson1 contends that an annuity is not always taxable as income.
Appeal allowed.
