This is an appeal by special leave against an award dated September 20 1963 made by the Presiding Officer of the Central Government Industrial Tribunal Bombay in a reference made by the Government of India under section 102 of the .
The respondents to this appeal are the trustees of the Port of Bombay.
The Port Trust had under its control several docks.
These represent different areas of work where different groups of workmen were employed.
Previously the shore crew at all these places worked in a single shift and were liable to be called out at 634 any hour of the day or night.
In 1956 the workmen who were then represented by the Port Trust General Workers  Union made a demand for a fixed recess of two hours.
The General Workers Union was informed that if the demand was pressed a three shift system would be introduced.
As the lock gates control the depth of water in the Alexandra Docks fixed hours of rest could be maintained from day to day except in the monsoon months when the storm gates had some time to be closed.
The workmen opposed the change from fixed to variable recess.
Meanwhile studies were being made and it was found that the work hours at the different Docks were not equal they were heavier at the Alexandra Docks than at the other docks.
Thus the 12 hours  shift at the Alexandra Docks was 8 hours  of duty 3 hours  overtime and one hour variable recess.
This system was however 635 not extended to the prince s and Victoria Docks and Butcher Island.
This claim was opposed by the Trustees.
They contended that regard being had to the number of actual work hours the case of shore crew at the Prince s and Victoria Docks and the Butcher Island could not be compared with that of the crew at the Alexandra Docks or the Flotilla Crew.
On behalf of the Union the learned Solicitor General has argued the case almost entirely from the legal stand point and has attempted to establish that the break up of a 12 hours  shift into 8 hours  duty 2 hours  rest and 2 hours  overtime offends the .
The was enacted to enable Government to fix minimum rates of wages in certain employments.
Any extra work beyond the specified work load must be paid for at a higher or what is known as overtime rate.
The Central Government has framed the Minimum Wages Central Rules 1950.
The Act and the 636 Rules between them provide not only for fixation of minimum wages but also for the work load in relation to which the minimum wages are to be prescribed.
It is admitted that the present workmen come under the Schedule.
The hours of work and the payment of overtime are therefore governed by the provisions of the and the Minimum Wages Central Rules 1950 and the controversy in this case must be appreciated and resolved in accordance with them.
We shall now turn to these provisions.
The sections are Nos 13 and 14 and the rules Nos 24 and 25.
The whole of the matter in dispute admittedly is governed by these four provisions.
Fixing hours for a normal working day etc.
 14 Overtime.
1 Where an employee whose minimum rate of wages is fixed under this Act by the hour by the day or by such a longer wage period as may be prescribed works on any day in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day the employer shall pay him for every hour or for part of an hour so worked in excess at the overtime rate fixed under this Act or under any law of the appropriate Government for the time being in force whichever is higher.
 Rule 24.
Number of hours of work which shall constitute a normal working day 1 The number of hours which shall constitute a normal working day shall be a in the case of an adult 9 hours b in the case of a child 41 hours.
2 The working day of an adult worker shall be so arranged that inclusive of the intervals for rest if any it shall not spread over more than twelve hours on any day.
Explanation The expression ordinary rate of wages means the basic wage plus such allowances including the cash equivalent of the advantages accruing through the concessional sale to the person employed of foodgrains and other articles as the person employed is for the time being entitled to but does not include a bonus.
Section 13 of the Act does not itself fix the hours of work or rest or overtime.
That is done by the Rules.
or more specified intervals.
There may be one interval of rest or there may be more intervals but whatever their number they must be specified.
There is no definition of interval either in the Act or the Rules but the provisions of section 13 2 c read with section 13 3 give us an indication of what is meant by an interval of rest.
If it is the latter it is counted as actual work period if the former it is counted as a period of rest provided the period is specified beforehand and the workman is neither called upon to work nor expected to work.
It may or it may not.
There is no provision in the Act and the Rules corresponding to section 55 of the Factories 640 Act to which reference will be made hereafter.
Under sub rule 2 of Rule 24 the working day of an adult can be so arranged that inclusive of intervals of rest it does not exceed 12 hours on any day.
A working day of 12 hours is thus made up of hours of work and hours of rest and the number of hours of work which cannot exceed 9 is part of the normal working day which may also include one or more specified intervals of rest.
From section 13 read with Rule 24 we know that the number of hours constituting a normal working day is 9.
We shall now read into section 14 this number leaving out those provisions which have no bearing upon the matter.
As there is a prescribed day of rest in a week we get a working week of six days with a maximum of 48 hours  work.
Thus if an employer takes actual work for 8 hours per day on 6 days in a week he complies with all the provisions and need not pay overtime.
He may go up to 9 hours on any day without paying any overtime provided he does not exceed 48 hours in the week.
He can specify the intervals of rest and spread the 8 hours or 9 hours as the case may be together with intervals of rest over 12 hours in a twelvehour shift.
These periods of rest must not be periods during which the workman is on duty and inaction is due to want of work for him but they must be pre determined periods of inaction during which the workman is neither called upon nor expected to display physical activity or sustained attention.
For the hours of rest he is not required to pay overtime but he must specify those hours.
Overtime under section 14 is only payable when the workman works in excess of the number of hours constituting a normal working day.
As in the present case the total number of hours of work in a week is 48 8 hours per day for 6 days overtime is payable for that hour or part of an hour beyond the 8 hours in which the workman is either made to work or the interval is not specified.
It is not compelled to fix only one interval or to make the interval of one hour only.
Sections 54 55 and 56 are the relevant provisions.
Daily hours.
Intervals for rest.
1 The periods of work of adult workers in a factory each day shall be so fixed that no period shall exceed five hours and that no worker shall work for more than five hours before he has had an interval for rest of at least half an hour.
2    56.
Spread over.
 Almost the same provisions are to be found in some other Acts of the State Legislatures controlling shops establishments etc.
It will be noticed that the arrangement of these sections is almost the same as the cognate provisions of the .
The reason perhaps is that in some employments time for work depends on some 643 extraneous factors and hours of rest cannot always be fixed to break up those hours.
Workers at a tidal dock must work when the tide is in and take their rest when the tide is out.
notice of the interval is given by specifying a day in advance the hours of rest.
We do not think that the Trustees are guilty of infraction of the by keeping the recess variable so long as they specify in advance the recess on any particular day.
According to their resolution the recess is fixed as near the middle of the work as possible depending on the tides.
This is not possible.
They are therefore entitled to three hours  overtime if required to work beyond the 9 hours on any day.
There is no parallel in the work of the three different crew and we are satisfied that no conclusion can be based upon the practice existing at the Alexandra Docks or in 644 respect of the Flotilla Crew.
The appeal must therefore fail.
It will be but in the circumstances of the case we make no order about costs.
