Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated September 2 1959 of the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
T V R Tatachari for the appellants.
The present appeal has been brought to this Court by special leave and it arises from a suit filed by the appellants against four respondents.
Their case was that the said properties had been granted to the Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple and formed part of its properties.
As trustees appointed by respondent No 4 they claimed that they were entitled to the possession of the properties.
The learned trial Judge examined the whole evidence and came to the conclusion that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam and that it was not a grant in favour of the religious endowment within the meaning of the Act.
In consequence the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
The lower appellate Court made a finding against respondents 1 to 3 on point No 2.
In regard to the third point based on the appellants  claim that they had acquired title by adverse possession the lower appellate Court found that it was evident that from the very beginning Pachai Kandai Udayavar and his family had been claiming beneficial interest in the property and they were not holding the same as managers of the trust.
In other words he negatived the appellants  claim that the original grant was in favour of their predecessors intitle though burdened with an obligation to render service to the matam.
This article has been introduced in the said Act by Amending Act 1 of 1929 and came into force on 1 1 1929.
A 2 in 1914 were held to be outside the mischief of article 134B.
That left the alienations covered by Exts.
A 3 A 6 and A 12 to be considered.
was upheld.
Such a case falls outside the purview of article 134 B and must be governed by article 144 of the First Schedule to the Limitation Act.
In support of this argument Mr Tatachari has relied on the statement of the law made by Mr Justice Mukherjea in his lectures on.
1962 p 282.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
Reverting then to the question as to whether a transfer effected by the manager of a temple in regard to properties belonging to the temple falls outside the purview of article 134 B if it is shown to have been made on the basis that the transferor treated the properties as his own it does appear that the two earlier Privy Council decisions in Gnanasambanda s2 and Damodar Das s3 cases lend some support to the contention.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
In appreciating the effect of this decision it is necessary to bear in mind that the plea of limitation with which the Privy Council was concerned in that case was based on article 124 of the Limitation Act.
2 LR 37 IA 147.
It is open to doubt whether the said decision could lead to the inference that if a part of the property is transferred by the manager of a religious endowment on the basis that it belongs to him and not to the religious endowment the transfer is void ab initio with the result that the possession of the transferee is adverse to the religious endowment from the very beginning and the succeeding manager s right to challenge the said transfer would be lost if his predecessor who made the transfer lives for more than 12 years after effecting the transfer.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
That is why we must reject the ingenious argument urged before us by Mr Tatachari that article 134 B does not apply to the present case.
49 50.
131 him.
He contends that the question as to whether on facts proved in the present case an inference can be drawn that the previous manager or trustee had been removed is a mixed question of fact and law and the High Court was in error in reversing the decisions of the courts below by holding that the title of the temple had not been lost by adverse possession before the suit was filed.
The transferor is Pachaikandaswamiar.
He assumed that Pachaikandaswamiar and his son were alive at the date of the suit.
This notice was served on witness Raju lyer and Amrithalinga lyer Chinnasamy Iyer and Rangaraja Reddiar who were performing the worship and acting as de facto managers of the temple.
It is on these facts that the learned trial Judge held that the alienor must be deemed to have resigned his office or left it.
In our opinion all the facts which have been brought on the record in relation to this aspect of the matter clearly show not only that the alienor disposed of all the property and left the village  but also that for the last 25 years or so the management has been taken over by other persons who are acting as de facto managers of the temple.
Appeal allowed.
