section Mohan Kumaramangalam C Ramakrishna and A V V Nair for respondent No 2.
BACHAWAT and SHELAT JJ.
i to iii.
i to iii.
of the company the activities of the company and other related matters have been set out.
Turning to paragraph 16 of the affidavit we find that Mr Dutt has clearly reiterated that there was ample material before the Board on which it could and did form the opinion that there were circumstances suggesting that as stated in the order of May 19 1965 the business of the company was being conducted with intent to defraud creditors members and other persons and further that the persons concerned in the management of the affairs of the company had in connection therewith been guilty of fraud misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
Its object is to find out the facts.
The investigation according to Mr Setalvad.
b and c.
Clause a of sub section.
For sub section.
To sum up then our conclusions may be stated thus The discretion conferred on the Central Government by section 237b to order an investigation and delegated by it to the Company Law Board is administrative that it could be validly exercised by the Chairman of the Board by an order made in pursuance of a rule enacted by the Central Government under section 6421 read with section 10E5 that the exercise of the power does not violate any fundamental right of the company that the opinion to be formed under section 237b is subjective and that if the grounds are disclosed by the Board the Court can examine them for considering whether they are relevant.
3 One of the members shall be appointed by the Central Government to be the chairman of the Company Law Board.
a of sub section.
1 of section 637 read with sub section.
1 of section 10E of the  the Central Government delegated its powers and functions to the Board under section 237b among others.
Simultaneously acting in exercise of the powers conferred by sub section.
4A added recently to section 10E enabling the solidarity of the Board to be broken.
The Board.
5 merely enables the procedure of the Board to be regulated.
It appears that in the High Court an offer was made to place the reports etc.
1 therefore.
Bachawat J.
by no other.
Act No 31 of 1965 has now inserted sub section.
The power under sub section.
The wide ambit of this rule making power is not cut down by the subsequent insertion of sub section.
