Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
The question before us is whether the respondent No 1 was entitled.
of this appeal are as follows.
On March 14 1953 the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Act 1953 was passed amending the definition of thika tenant still further and introducing important changes in the Act of 1949.
The learned Judge held that at the time when the appeal of the defendant was disposed of by the Subordinate Judge the rights of the parties were governed by the Thika Tenancy Act of 1949 and the definition of a thika tenant in that Act was not such as to afford any protection to the appellant.
In the result they dismissed the appeal.
The incidents of thika tenancy were mentioned in various sections from section 3 to section II contained in Chapter 11 of the Act.
Sub section.
5 of the section provided for reviews.
Section 29 ran as follows The provisions of this Act shall apply to all suits and proceedings including proceedings  in execution for ejectment of a thika tenant which are pending at the date of commencement of this Act and if any such suit or proceeding relates to any matter in respect of which the Controller is competent after the date of such commendment to pass orders under this Act such suit or proceeding shall be transferred to the Controller who shall on suit transfer deal with it in accordance with the provisions of this Act as if this Act had been in operation on the date of institution of the suit or proceeding Provided that in applying the provisions of the Act to any suit or proceeding instituted for the ejectment of a thika tenant so transferred the provisions regarding notice in section 4 of this Act shall not apply.
5 or an other like system.
It is however clear that the benefit of section 28 was available only if the decree or order for the recovery of possession had been made before the date of the commencement of the Act but 176 possession of such holding had not been recovered from him.
2ATR 1951 Calcutta 358.
The most important one was however that contained in section 5 sub section.
Sub section.
If the Court or Controller holds that the person is such a thika tenant.
Sub section.
The second Explanation to the section provided that the expression  court would include a court exercising appellate or revisional jurisdiction and the expression controller  meant the controller referred to in sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
2 of section 5 made a special provision for cases where a decree or order for possession had been made between the commencement of the Act and of the Ordinance and delivery of possession had not been given to the decree holder.
In such a case if it was found that the person applying was a thika tenant the court before whom the proceedings were pending had to remit the case to the controller and if the authority before whom the application was made was a controller he had to re open the case and pass a new order.
Sub section 2 of section 1 provided that the Act was to come into force immediately on the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 ceasing to operate provided that the provisions of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended by this Act were subject to the provisions of section 9 to apply and be deemed to have always applied to all suits appeals and proceedings a before any court or b before the Controller or c before a person deciding an appeal under section 27 of the said Act on the date of the commencement of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 ie 21st October 1952.
The word successor in interest  had not been defined in the Act or in the Ordinance but as words in the Act were under section 2 sub section.
Sections 3 4 and 5 introduced changes with which we are not concerned Section 8 laid down that sections 28 and 29 of the Act of 1949 shall be omitted.
Under section 9 any proceedings commenced under sub section.
2 3 and 4 of that section and the Explanation to that section were in force.
Sub section.
According to Craies on Statute Law Sixth Edition at p 391 If it is a necessary implication from the language employed that the legislature intended a particular section to have a retrospective operation the courts will give it such an operation.
It expressly states that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any contract a thika tenant shall be liable to ejectment on ground specified and not otherwise.
Consequently a landlord who had filed a suit before the 28th October 1949 but was unable to establish any of the grounds mentioned in section 3 could not claim to eject his tenant.
The language of sections 4 and 5 leave no room for doubt that after the coming into force of the Act it was not open to the landlord to file a suit.
Section 29 on the other hand shows that it was to be applicable to all suits and proceedings which were pending at the date of the commencement of the Act of 1949.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
There being no provision for transfer of the proceedings of the suit to the controller the court had to apply the Act as it found applicable to the facts of the case.
He was not right in his view that the grounds specified in section 3 could not be called in aid.
As section 4 of the Act was prospective only it could not apply to this case.
However the view expressed by the Calcutta High Court finally hearing the appeal that suits for eviction of thika tenants became infructuous before civil courts after the omission of section 29 is not correct.
