Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated  March 6 1967 of the Orissa High Court in OJC Nos.
5 to 7 in CAs.
156 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde J.
The above.
Shri Sarjoo Prasad learned counsel for the High Court of Orissa at the very commencement of his arguments conceded that the order of the High Court holding that those officers had no authority to hold the posts in question is unsustainable.
It is not the case of the parties that he was placed at the disposal of the government for any definite period.
Neither the government nor the High Court could have posted any officer as the Registrar of the High Court as that post can be filled only by 160 the Chief Justice.
But we were told that in view of the decisions of this Court in State of West Bengal vs Nripendra Nath Bagchi1 and State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad2 the High Court must be held to have that right as those posts are included in the cadre of superior judicial service.
1  2  161 namely whether the power to transfer District Judges is included in the control  exercisable by the High Court over District Courts under article 235 or in the power of appointment of persons to be and the posting and promotion of district judges  which is to be exercised by the Governor under article 233 albeit in consultation with the High Court.
 Obviously relying on the observation of this Court that after a judicial officer is posted to the cadre it is for the High Court to effect his transfers the court below has come to the conclusion that as the posts of the law secretary deputy law secretary and superintendent and legal remembrancer are included in the cadre the High Court has the power to fill those posts by transfer of judicial officers.
be found.
The other is that a case is only an authority for what it actually decides.
The cadre with which we are concerned in this case consists of three parts ie 1 presiding officers of district courts 2 the Registrar of the High Court and 3 the judicial officers working in the secretariat.
If there is no such agreement it is open to the government to send him back to his parent department at any time it pleases.
RKPS Appeals allowed in part.
