This is an appeal by the State of West Bengal from a judgment of a Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta quashing the conviction of the respondent by the Special Court established under sec tion 3 of the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance 1949 Ordinance No 3 of 1949 which was replaced in March 1950 by the West Bengal Special Courts Act 1950 West Bengal Act X of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act.
 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
Harries CJ who delivered the leading judgment which Das and Banerjee JJ.
concurred applied the test of what may be called reasonable classification and held that although the need for a speedier trial than what is possible under the procedure prescribed 291 by the Code of Criminal Procedure might form the basis of a reasonable classification and section 5 1 could not be regarded as discriminatory in so far as it authorises the State Government to direct that certain offences or classes of offences or classes of cases should be tried by a special court the provision was discriminatory and violative of article 14 of the Constitution in so far as it purported to vest in the State Government an absolute and arbitrary power to refer to a special court for trial any cases  which must include an individual case whether the duration of such a case is likely to be long or not .
Chakravartti and Das JJ.
Co 2.
538 558.
2  293 offences as there can of course be no trial of offences in the abstract and the general expressions used in providing for the power to set that machinery in operation must be restricted to that end in accordance with the intention of the legislature for a literal construction of the general language would impute to the legislature an intention to confer an arbitrary power of reference which would be incon sistent not only with the declared object of the statute but also with the constitutional prohibition against discrimina tion which the legislature must be taken to have been aware of when it deliberately re enacted the provisions of the old Ordinance.
Rep405.
FN Balsara C and the principles laid down in those decisions have to be kept in view in deciding the present case.
MAHAJAN J.
His first line of argument is that quite apart from the question of classification there has been no infringement of article 14 of the Constitution in the present case.
It was held by the Supreme Court that the equal protection clause was not violated by this provision.
It is not stated that it is only when speedier trial is necessary that the discretion should be exercised.
vs Ellis  2 Middleton vs Texas Power  Light Co  3  4 43 330 Francisco was invalid by reason of its being in conflict with the equal protection clause.
FN Balsara 2.
particular person or persons but is made in the general interest of administration there is no infringement of article 14.
A careful perusal of this decision will make it quite clear that the Court upheld the validity of the statute impugned in that case not on the ground that the inequality was of minor importance but on the ground that the classification of establishments according to the number of workmen employed therein was based on an intelli gible distinction having a rational relation to the subject matter of the legislation in question.
That the Act has prescribed a procedure of trial which is materially different from that laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot be disputed.
Section 5 1 of the Act runs as follows  A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases as the State Government may by general or special order in writing direct.
I have already stated that this part of the sub section contemplates a process of classification of of fences classes of offences and classes of cases.
The provision for the speedier trial of certain offences is therefore the object of the Act.
 In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
It is urged by the learned AttorneyGeneral that this selection of cases must also be made in the light of the object of the Act as expressed in its preamble that is to say the State government can only select those cases which in their view require speedier trial.
CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
The short question that arises for consideration in these cases is whether the whole or any portion of the West Bengal Special Courts Act X of 1950 is invalid as being opposed to equality before the law and the equal protection of the laws guaran teed under article 14 of the Constitution of India.
Preliminary inquiry before committal to the sessions trial by jury or with the aid of assessors the right of a de novo trial on transfer of a case from one Court to another have been taken away from the accused who are to be tried by a Special Court even graver is section 13 which provides that a person may be convicted of an offence disclosed by the evidence as having been committed by him even though he was not charged with it and it happens to be a more serious offence.
Bombay and Another vs.
The principle of equality does not mean that every law must have universal application for all 351 persons who are not by nature attainment or circumstances in the same position and the varying needs of different classes of persons often require separate treatment.
If a law deals equally with members of a welldefined class it is not obnoxious and it is not open to the charge of denial of equal protection on the ground that it has no application to other persons.
Thus we have before us an enactment which does not make any reasonable classification and which confers on the executive an uncontrolled and unguided power of discrimination.
Discrimination may not appear in the statute itself but may be evident in the administration of the law.
One is that there was no discrimination at all in the exercise of the power.
The State Government may even arbitrarily determine the classes of cases to be tried by the Special Court and if it does so its action will be well within its powers conferred by the Act.
 Bose J We are concerned here with article 14 of the Constitution and in particular with the words equality before the law and equal protection of the law.
It is not enough that justice should be done.
