iminal Appeal No112 of 1965.
A section R Chari M K Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar and Shyamala Pappu for the appellants.
J P Goyal V C Prasar and section P Singh for respondent No 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
The relevant facts are these.
On December 13 1963 a notice was issued to the five members of the Panchayat to assemble on December 25 1963 and hear the case.
On December 20 1963 Mahabir moved an application under article 227 of the Constitution challenging the order of the SDM dated November 28 1963 and on the same day the High Court admitted the application and stayed further proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
It seems to us that it is not proved on the evidence here that any such application was made before the Nyaya Panchayat.
No application dated December 21 1963 which was not accepted by the Nyaya Panchayat has been produced.
He produced the telegram received from the Advocate before the SDM.
Apparently he did not take any further action till December 26 1963.
The order sheet reads thus  Put up today the 25th December 1963.
The complainant and the accused are present.
The accused refused to make statements and put down their signatures.
Hence judgment shall be given on 25 12 63.
 This order was signed by three Panchas Phagu Parsad Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.
 We looked at this so called affidavit and found.
that it has not been sworn to before any person authorised to administer oaths.
 Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad pairokar of Mahabir Burma Prasad the Sarpanch and Mahabir and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
Bunna Prasad in his affidavit stated that as the Nyaya Panchayat was not satisfied for want of evidence by way of proper affidavit etc.
 the Nyaya Panchayats proceeded with the case.
Phagu Prasad.
We had also told him to get the affidavit verified before some Tehsil authority.
passed by the High Court.
The High Court held  There was no reasonable ground for the Panchas to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat nor is there any thing in the order sheet to show that the Panchas did not believe the contents of the application and affidavit of Mahabir.
However if they wanted to ascertain the matter they should have at best stayed the proceedings for a short while and should have asked the applicant to produce a certified copy of the stay order.
But the Panchas did nothing of the kind.
The learned counsel for the appellants Mr Chari says that no contempt of court has been established because a Court is entitled not to act on an application which is not accompanied by an affidavit properly sworn to or a certified copy of the order He urges that the Nyaya Panchayats exercised judicial powers and even if the Panchas erred in not staying proceedings before finding them guilty of contempt of court it should be definitely proved that the order was passed deliberately to by pass the order of the High Court.
This Court quoted with approval the following passage from Oswald s Contempt of Court in Hoshiar Singh vs Gurbachan.
Singh1 The judgment or order should be served on the party personally except in the following cases  1 prohibitive orders the drawing up of which is not completed .
 We need not consider whether it makes any differnce in law if the order has been drawn up.
We will for the purpose of this case assume that it does not make any difference.
It is also clear that in such matters those who assert that a person had knowledge of the order must prove this fact beyond all reasonable doubt.
121 administer oaths.
It seems to us that the High Court did not appreciate that the so called affidavit which was filed before the Panchas was in fact not an affidavit at all.
It is true that in certain cases proceedings can be adjourned to enable the parties to file better proof but a judicial officer is not bound to do so and if he bona fide does not in his discretion adjourn proceedings it cannot be said that he has committed contempt of court.
In our opinion there is no such evidence in this case.
RKPS Appeal allowed.
