The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Bhargava J.
 On the basis of this finding of fact the Tribunal held that if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which in its opinion would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case then a revision was really necessary.
It is to be noted that there is no mention in the award of the Tribunal that the Company at any stage put forward the case that the Collieries the Steel Plant the Cement Factory and the Aluminjure Company were concerns which were not comparable with the Company.
Having come to this view it is clear that to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co1 the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
payable as production bonus.
necessary that the minimum wage.
parts of the country.
We do.
between.
In this case however there is nothing to show that the Company is providing any such amenities which are different from the amenities that are being provided by those concerns in the region which.
The profit bonus that is paid is three months  basic wage and does not take into account the dearness allowance and the production bonus elements of the total wage.
The only other point argued before us in respect of wages by learned counsel was that casual workers should also be paid minimum wages on the same basis as the permanent workers for whom the minimum wage was fixed by the Tribunal which is being varied by us by increasing it to a total wage packet of Rs 95.
cannot be held to be incorrect and must be upheld.
In all these circumstances we think that the revised wages should take effect from 13th December 1962.
of arguments at the last stage before us learned counsel for the workmen confined his arguments to the bonus for the year 1962 63 only.
refer it.
The award had to cover the year 1963 64 also and at least for that year the accounts could not possibly have been completed as that year was still running when the award was given by the Tribunal on the 11 th January 1964.
The claim was in fact based on the circumstances that according to the workmen the bonus in their case was being calculated as equivalent to three months  basic wages while the case of some clerical staff the calculation was made on the basis of their consolidated wages consisting of basic wages and dearness allowance.
