Appeal No 949 of 1966.
M C Chagla and B R Agarwala for the appellant.
CJ V Ramaswami and A N Grover JJ.
The case was twice re manded to the Tribunal.
There were two partners of the firm Mohanlal Sagmal and Seshmal Sobhachand and Ramniklal and Lakshmichand minors were admitted to the benefits of the partnership each with 732 share in the profits.
483 1 9 2006 Cr11975 0 0Cr.
The Income tax Officer disallowed their claim holding that  these transactions were mere accommodations which can have no bearing to the regular business carried on by the assessee.
He held that the debt .
did not arise in the course of the appellants  business as chemists and druggists nor in the course of their money lending business.
The question referred was therefore answered in the affirmative and against the appellants.
debt written off relying upon both the branches of section 10 2 xi and by the application under section 661 of the Income tax Act a question covering both the branches of the section was also sought to be raised.
But the question on which the Tribunal was called upon to state the case was in form imprecise and in import somewhat vague.
A bad and doubtful debt in respect of a business other than banking or money lending is allowable even if it is not in respect of loan  but a debt due in the course of the business of a money lending is not allowable unless it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of his business.
It contains only a summary of the business relations between.
Counsel said that 1 Sobhagchand Amarchand partner of the Bombay firm is the father of Seshmal one of the partners of the appellants and of the minors Ramniklal and Lakshmichand who are admitted to the benefits of partnership 2 that large amounts of money were advanced shortly before the Bombay firm closed its business and 3 that there was a consistant practice for paying or receiving interest on the 420 amounts due at the foot of the account but no interest was charged by the appellants in respect of the dues at the foot of the account at the end of Samvat Years 2007 and 2008.
But the Tribunal has not raised any inference from these circumstances and has merely observed that charging of interest cannot make it a money lending account.
The Tribunal will give opportunity to both the parties of being heard but will restrict themselves to the evidence on the record.
After receipt of the supplementary statement of case from the Tribunal the appeal was heard by J C Shah K section Hegde and A N Grover JJ.
The order of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
We have now received a statement of case from the Tribunal.
The statement of case is intended to be a finding on facts and not a catalogue of the arguments advanced at the Bar.
Since the Tribunal has not found the facts we are constrained to send back the case again to the Tribunal for submitting to this Court a supplementary statement on facts found by the Tribunal.
The Tribunal will submit the statement within three months from the date on which the papers reach the Tribunal.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde J.
The accounting year with which we are concerned in this appeal is Samvat year 2008 commencing from October 31 1951 and ending on Oct 18 1952.
The firm 421 consisted of two partners Mohanlal Baginal and Sashmal Sobha Chand.
The assessee had dealings for several years with a firm known as Bhojaji Sobhachand to be hereinafter referred to as the Bombay firm.
That firm became insolvent in April 1952.
The Bombay firm owed certain amount to the assessee.
In appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the Income tax Officer.
Thereafter the present appeal was brought after obtaining special leave from this Court.
At the hearing of the appeal this Court found that the tribunal s order was very brief and that it gave no reasons in support of its conclusions.
It accordingly .
reframed the question as follows Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Appellate Tribunal erred in disallowing a sum of Rs 268385 written off by the assessee in their books of accounts as irrecoverable  By its order dated July 29 1969 this Court called upon the Tribunal to submit a supplementary statement of case on the reframed question.
The tribunal did not give any findings on the points arising for decision.
The tribunal has accordingly submitted a further statement.
They read   11.
We have taken into consideration the available materials and the rival submissions.
Having considered all the circumstances of the case we are of the opinion that the sums in question were not sent to the Bombay firm as loans made in the ordinary course of the money lending business of the assessee nor in respect of any other business of the assessee.
 423 It is true as contended by the learned Counsel for the asstssee that the conclusions reached by the tribunal are not supported by proper discussion of the material before it.
This finding covers the entire amount sought to be deducted.
The appeal fails and is dismissed.
No costs.
GC Appeal dismissed.
