l Misc.
Petitions Nos.
401and 4012 of 1968.
Applications by respondent No 1 for revocation of the certificate granted by the Madras High Court on 15th October 1968 under article 1331a  b of the Constitution of India.
MK Ramamurthi Shyamala Pappu and Vineet Kumar for respondent No 1.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
In appeals under the Letters Patent preferred by the second defendant.
the High Court of Madras set aside that order.
The expression final order it has been held by a long course of authorities occurring in section 205 of the Government of India Act 1935 section 109 of the Code of Civil Procedure and article 1331 of the Constitution means a final decision on the rights of the parties in dispute in a suit or proceeding if the rights of the parties in dispute in the suit or proceeding remain to be tried after the order the order is not final.
 In Abdul Rahman vs.
DK Cassim  Sons5 the Judicial Committee observed that the expression final order within the meaning of section 109a of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 is an 1 LR 47 IA 124.
Soon after the suit was instituted the plaintiff firm was adjudicated insolvent and the official assignee was impleaded as an additional plaintiff.
Against that order an appeal was preferred to the Judicial Committee which was held not maintainable.
During the pendency of the suit them Bombay Prevention of Ex communication Act 42 of 1949 was enacted and one of the issues raised in the suit was whether the order of ex communication was invalid.
The trial court decided the issue against the appellant and the order was confirmed in appeal by the High Court of Bombay.
This Court held Bachawat  Mitter JJ dissenting that the order passed was a final order within the meaning of article 1341 c since the controversy between the parties when the the complaint in respect of offences under sections 467 and 468 read with section 114 IP Code was disposed of by the order of dismissal and the proceeding regarding that question was finally decided It was observed that the finality of that order was not to be judged by co relating it with the controversy in the complaint viz when then the appellant had committed the offence charged against him therein.
The Court in that case was concerned merely with an order passed by the High Court which maintained the order of the Additional Sessions Judge that a complaint under section 205 read with section 114 IP Code could be filed against the appellant.
Different tests have been applied however to orders made in proceeding independent of the original or the main proceeding.
The order refusing to grant an interim injunction did not determine the rights and obligations of the parties in relation to the matter in dispute in the suit.
In our judgment Mohanlal Maganlal ThakKar s case1 makes no departure from the earlier judgments of the Judicial Committee the Federal Court and this Court.
GC Certificate revoked.
