MK Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar L Ramamurthy and Shyamala Pappu for the appellant.
AV Rangam for the respondents.
425 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
The case of the appellant was that the trusteeship of the temple was hereditary.
Section 6 sub section.
9 of Madras Act 19 of 1951 states In this Act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context 9 hereditary trustee  means the trustee of a religious institution succession to whose office devolves by hereditary right or is regulated by usage or is specifically provided for by the founder so long as such scheme of succession is in force This Act has been substituted by Madras Act 22 of 1959 but the definition of the trustee is identical in both the Acts.
It was said that according to the usage of the temple the trustees were elected for a period of one year each at a meeting of the members of the Sangunatha Mudaliar Community and so the appellant must be held to be a trustee within the meaning of section 69 of Act 19 of 1951.
The word succession in relation to property and rights and interests in property generally implies passing of an interest from one person to another vide in Re Hindu Women s Right to Property Act 1941 1.
This is so whether the trustee has a beneficial interest of some sort or not see Ganesh Chunder Dhur vs Lal Behary2 and Bhabatarini vs Ashalata3.
3 70 IA 57.
In Sri Mahant Paramanda Das Goswami vs Radhakrishna Das1 the Madras High Court took the view that where succession to the mahantship is by nomination by the holder in office it was not a hereditary succession.
Hereditary succession is succession by the heir to the deceased under the law the office must be transmitted to the successor according to some definite rules of descent which by their own force designate the person to succeed.
There need be no blood relationship between the deceased and his successor but the right of the latter should not depend upon the choice of any individual.
It is not possible to say that there is a succession of As office to another when on the efflux of the period for which A was appointed there is a vacancy and B is elected to that vacancy.
The possibility of A being the successor A himself is not merely an anomaly it is an impossible legal position.
No man can succeed to his own office.
1 428 The right by which one set of men may by succeeding another set acquire a property in all the goods movables and other chattels of a corporation.
For these reasons we hold that this appeal fails and must be dismissed with costs.
VPS Appeal dismissed.
