Appeal No 1653 of 1967.
B Sen P L Juneja R N Sachthey and section P Nayer for the appellant.
Sardar Bahadur and Yougindra Khushalani for the respondent.
The judgment reproduced below was drafted by the late Mr Justice Roy and we all had subscribed to it.
We beard the matter formally again on November 19 1971.
We adopt the judgment as our own.
On April 9 1959 the Central Government directed removal from service of Capt section K Rao under r 14 of the Army Rules 1954.
It was alleged that on April 4 1958 he committed acts of gross misconduct.
An inquiry into the matter was made by Court of Inquiry.
Rao was most unbecoming of an officer.
At the hearing of the petition the only point which was urged was the validity of r 14 of the Army Rules 1954.
If this rule was intra vires the  Rao has no case.
Rule 14 of the Army Rules 1954 is as follows 1 When after considering the reports on an officer s misconduct the Central Gove rnment is satisfied or the C in C is of the opinion that the trial of the officer by a court martial is inexpedient or impracticable but considers the further retention of the said officer in the service as undesirable the C in C shall communicate the view of the Central Government or his views as the case may be to the officer together with all reports adverse to him and he shall be called upon to submit his explanation and defence.
without the officer being tried by a court martial.
450 Before removal he must under the rule be asked to submit his explanation and defence.
If the explanation is found to be unsatisfactory the Central Government has been given the power to dismiss or remove the officer.
Rules are framed under section 191 of the .
 section 19 Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder the Central Government may dismiss or remove from the service any person subject to this Act.
 Offenses under the have been dealt with in sections 34 to 70 in Ch.
VI of which section 45 is as follows  section 45 Any officer junior commissioned officer or warrant officer who behaves in a manner unbecoming his position and the character expected of him shall on conviction by court martial if he is an officer be liable to be cashiered or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned and if he is a junior commissioned officer or a warrant officer be liable to be dismissed or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned It was argued by counsel for the respondent Rao that the contained specific provisions for punishment for unbecoming conduct viz section 45.
This argument is not correct.
Section 191 2 a specifically gives.
power to make a rule providing for the removal from the service of persons subject to the Act.
Rule 14 is such a rule  it is therefore not ultra vires.
It was argued that the words subject to the provisions of this Act occurring in section 19 makes section 19 subject to section 45 and the Central Government has thus no power to remove a person from the service in derogation of the provisions of section 45.
But the power under section 19 is an independent power.
VPS Appeal allowed.
