In support of  the appeal it is argued by Mr Jai Gopal Sethi that the conviction of the appellant is illegal as sanction had not been obtained under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for his prosecution that the evidence on record is insufficient to establish an offence either under section 465 or section 409 of the Indian Penal Code and that there having been an acquittal of the appellant by the trial Magistrate the materials on record did not justify a reversal of that verdict by the appellate Court.
The point for decision is whether sanction under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is necessary for prosecuting the appellant under section 409.
There the accused was charged under section 161 with taking bribes and under section 120 B with conspiracy.
The view taken in H H B Gill vs The King1 was followed by the Privy Council in A16 ert West Meads vs The King  and reaffirmed in Phanindra Chandra vs 1 1948 LR 75 IA 41.
The result of the authorities may thus be summed up It is not every offence committed by a public servant that requires sanction for prosecution under section 1971 of the Code of Criminal Procedure nor even every act done by him while he is actually engaged in the performance of his official duties but if the act complained of is directly concerned with his official duties so that if questioned it could be claimed to have been done by virtue of the office then sanction would be necessary and that would be so irrespective of whether it was in fact a proper discharge of his duties because that would really be a matter of defence on the merits which would have to be in vestigated at the trial and could not arise at the stage of the grant of sanction which mut precede the institution of the prosecution.
But he contends that misappropriation of funds could under no circumstances be said to be within the scope of the duties of a public servant that he could not when charged with it claim justification for it by virtue of his office that therefore no sanction under section 1971 was necessary and that the question was concluded by the decisions in Hori Ram Singh vs Emperor1 and Albert We8t Meads vs The King1 in both of which the charges were of criminal misappropriation.
In our judgment even when the charge is one of misappropriation by a public servant whether sanction is required under section 1971 will depend upon the facts of each case.
On the facts it was held in that case that the several acts which were complained of were official acts and that the prosecution was bad for want of sanction.
But if they are unconnected with such duties then no sanction is necessary.
In this view we have to examine whether the acts with which the appellant is charged directly bear on the duties which he has got to discharge as a public servant.
The accused does claim to have paid the amount to Parma and the acquittance roll records the payment and there is in acknowledgment thereof a thumb impression as against his name.
The conviction should therefore be quashed.
Appeal allowed.
