The Judgment of the Court was delivered by GOSWAMI J.
The High Court by its order of 1920th December 1962 set aside the order of the District Judge and held the Sansthan to be a public trust under the Act and restored the order of the Charity Commissioner.
His only contention is that it is a private religious endowment and not a public one.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
This is a document which was relied upon both by the District Judge as well as by the High Court.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
Again in the gift deed exhibit 39 the donee is described as Shri Rukhmini Pandurang Sansthan Sansthan Amalner Sakharam Maharaj at present Vasudev Buwa Guru Bal 525 krishna Maharaj.
It is clear that the beneficiaries of the deeds are the deity and the Sansthan and the gifts were made with the object of maintenance of the worship of the deity for the benefit of the Hindu public as a whole.
vs Sm.
Distinguishing the decision of the Privy Council in Bahu Bhagwan Din vs Gir Har Saroon on the ground that the properties in that case were granted not in favour of an idol or temple but in favour of one Daryao Gir who was maintaining a temple and to his heirs in perpetuity this Court further held in the above decision But in the present case the endowment was in favour of the idol itself and the point for decision is whether it 527 was private or public endowment.
We cannot agree that the High Court was not right in giving due importance to the admission of the constituted attorney Ramkrishna Deshpande that they cannot prevent people from going to the temple as the temple is meant for the Darshan by the public.
of the Deity have to be made as per the order of the Guru according to the Sampradaya.
of Shri Sakharam Maharaj regularly as was being done.
Your bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
faithfully as mentioned herein as per the Vaishnava sampradaya as being done from before.
This property goes from Guru to his Shishya.
The Bhajans at Pandharpur performed by Maharaj are attended by the public.
PBR Appeal dismissed.
