39 40 of 1976.
13 Crl of 1975 and 14 Crl of 1975.
243 The appellants wrote a letter on 20 February 1975 to the President with copies to the Prime Minister Chief Justice of India the Chief Minister of Haryana and the Chief Jus tice of Punjab and Haryana High Court.
In that letter they further stated as follows The learned Judge met the members of the Bar on 15 February 1975 in the Bar Room Bhiwani.
Chandrawati.
The High Court did not take any action against two persons on the letter written by five members of the Bar Association of Charkhi Dadri.
The letter in question was addressed by the deponent to the President of India with copies to others with the sole object of conveying the opinion that the public expression by the Hon ble Judge of his personal views on controversial political matters con cerning the merits and demerits of the present system of the Government was not in keeping with the well accepted role of proverbial aloofness of a Judge.
The Full Bench thereafter referred to paragraph 9 of the affidavit where the deponents said that if in view of this Hon ble Court the action of the deponent in addressing the letter in question constituted for any reason contempt of court no one would be more sorry than the deponent himself.
Therefore the deponent tender his apology to this Hon ble Court for the same and prays for its acceptance.
The elementary basis of acceptance of apology is that there is to be a finding of committal of contempt.
The condition is that if there is contempt the deponents tender apology.
It is indeed curious 246 that the High Court in the notice referred to the letter of the appellant and said on a perusal of the contents thereof a prima facie case contempt is made out.
All we need say is that it will not be correct and proper for any Judge to accept the invitation and hospitality of any busi ness or commercial organisation or of any political party or of any club or organisation run on sectarian communal or parochial lines.
In view of the fact that the High Court proceeded on the basis that the allegations in the letter were unchallenged we are of opinion that the matters did not constitute any contempt.
The High.
MR Appeals allowed.
