This appeal by special leave has been preferred by Tata Consultancy Engineers against an award dated 20th December 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra Bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
The dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
There was no separate dearness allowance until January 1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
Caretaker.
Steno 20 625 EB 25 725.
IV Sr.
Asstt 35 1020 EB 40 1300 1265 EB 45 1490.
60 1700.
The Tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
 Further it appears that the Tribunal intended to grant the increase of Rs 150 to each draughtsman and Rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No 23 but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure Rs 150  were omitted.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
When the award is sent for publication a necessary corrigendum be made in the award and the aforesaid words after the figures Rs 150 and Rs 100 be added.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz to grant flat increase of Rs 150 and of Rs 100 to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted vide exhibit C 51.
The fitment has also to be done only after the flat increase is added to the present basic salary of each employee.
I do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
Since the award has been already signed I do not think anything further can be added to this award.
The Charter of Demands was presented by the Union in July 1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the State Government made the reference to the Industrial Tribunal in 1975.
They are considerations which cannot be ignored.
It is only a clerical mistake or error which can be corrected and the clerical mistake or error must arise from an accidental slip or omission in the award.
That the increase was pertinent to the general pay scales in the revised wage structure is patently clear from a comparison of the existing pay scales and the revised pay scales.
Considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
It will be noted that the statement Exhibit C 51 was prepared on the basis of the employees  strength as in December 1971.
Our attention has been drawn to what purports to be an endorsement by counsel for the appellant on the application dated 22nd December 1978 filed by the Union before the Tribunal to the effect that the appellant would submit to whatever the Tribunal decided and it is urged that the appellant is bound by the order made on the application.
The only contention of the workmen is that the Tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
Further it appears that the Tribunal intended to grant the increase of Rs 150 to each draughtsman and Rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No 23 but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure Rs 150  were omitted.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
When the award is sent for publication a necessary corrigendum be made in the award and the aforesaid words after the figures Rs 150 and Rs 100 be added.
It may be mentioned that only from that point of view viz to grant flat increase of Rs 150 and of Rs 100 to the employees in the category of Draftsmen and the other categories respectively that a burden statement was called for from the company and the same was submitted vide exhibit C 51.
