ivil Appeal Nos.
With Civil Appeal No 213 of 1979 6 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 15th April 1978 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Misc.
of Delhi.
Section 69 by clauses c and d confers upon the Development Authority powers for the purpose of municipal administration and for the purpose of taxation.
It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
Ordinance No 4 of 1976 inserted certain provisions in the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act.
Rs 6000.
11 The appellant Company disputed its liability to pay the aforesaid amounts on the grounds principally that no tax was leviable on its property since the Company was owned wholly by the Government of India and that respondent 1 was estopped from levying the property tax by reason of the agreement of 1976.
In the case last cited the Privy Council qualified its statement of the law by saying that the principle that an amendment of the first law which is not expressly made applicable to the subsequent incorporating Act cannot be deemed to be incorporated into the second Act applies if it is possible for the subsequent Act to function effectually without the addition page 267.
The Act of 1973 does not provide for any independent power of taxation or any machinery of its own for exercising the power of taxation.
The three Acts are therefore supplemental from which it must follow that amendments made to the earlier Acts after the enactment of section 69d shall have to be read into that section.
This contention is devoid of substance.
Similarly section 133 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act prescribes the procedure for the imposition of any tax under section 132.
The property tax is imposed by respondent 1 under section 127A of the Municipalities Act and section 135 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
The short answer to this contention is that even though the entire share capital of the appellant companies has been subscribed by the Government of India it cannot be predicated that the companies themselves are owned by the Government of India.
On the question as to whether the Corporation carried on an industry under the authority of the Central Government within the meaning of section 2a of the  it was held by this Court that an incorporated company has a separate existence and the law recognises it as a juristic person separate and distinct from its members.
puts the matter beyond all doubt.
It is true that on account of the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Act 1957 the legislative field covered by Entry 23 of List II will pass on to Parliament by virtue of Entry 54 List I.
one of which is to provide for the development and administration of Special Areas through Special Area Development Authorities Section 64 of the Act of 1973 which provides for the constitution of the special areas lays down by sub section 4 that Notwithstanding anything contained in the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961 or the Madhya Pradesh Panchayats Act 1962 the Municipal Corporation Municipal Council Notified Area Committee or a Panchayat as the case may be shall in relation to the special area and as from the date the Special Area Development Authority undertakes the functions under clause v or clause vi of section 68 cease to exercise the powers and perform the function and duties which the Special Area Development Authority is competent to exercise and perform under the Act of 1973.
The power conferred by the State Legislature on Special Area Development Authorities to impose the property tax on lands and buildings is therefore not in conflict with the power conferred by the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act on the Union Government to regulate and develop the Coal mines so as to ensure rational and scientific utilisation of coal resources.
It was held by this Court that the Haryana Act was not in any way repugnant to the provisions of the Act of 1957 made by Parliament and that the ownership rights could be validly acquired by the State Government under the State Act.
These are the main points argued by the learned Attorney General on behalf of the appellant Companies.
