Civil Appeals Nos.
In these 11 appeals only that part of the judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court is assailed by the Union of India where the challenge to the validity of section 28 of the Gold Control Act 1968 has succeeded.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus 28.
Money lending business not to be carried on in licensed premises No licensed dealer shall unless authorised by the Administrator so to do a carry on business as a money lender or banker on the security of any article or ornament or both b permit any other person to carry on money lending banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
 The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
collector of Central Excise Poona II Division while declaring sec.
It cannot be disputed that sec.
The main object in putting the Act on the Statute Book as indicated by its long title is to provide in the economic and financial interests of the community for the control of the production manufacture supply distribution use and possession of and business in gold ornaments and articles of gold and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
It is also clear that the restrictions which have been imposed in sec.
Therefore in our view the objective the policy and the Scheme of the Act together with the necessity to ensure prevention of circumvention of the other provisions of the Act afford more than sufficient guidance to the Administrator in the matter of exercising the power of discretion conferred on him under sec.
We approve the view taken in those cases As regards the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court in Harakchand Banthia s case supra while declaring unamended sec.
214 Guj.
e and public interest  in cl.
276 this Court struck down sec.
No such vague or indefinite expressions or concepts are to be found in sec.
28 by reference to which the Administrator is required to exercise his power.
The appeal succeeds but since the respondents have not appeared there will be no order as to costs.
