minal Appeals Nos.
91 to 93 of 1954.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BOSE J.
They differed.
The petition was heard by Ali Khan and Reddy JJ.
They say they saw all five accused striking him the three appellants Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia with axes the other two who have not appealed with sticks.
Rasika Bai s version is that on seeing the assault she called out to the accused not to hit but they  raised their axes and sticks and threatened her and then ran away.
But what the learned counsel for the appellants says is that he saw Narsabai on the evening of the murder and as she did not give him any names it is evident that no one knew who the assailants were and that therefore the accusation made against the accused was a subsequent concoction and that it was for that reason that they waited till the next morning before reporting the matter to the police.
He also admits that he saw Narsabai there but says he did not speak to her.
The absence of the names in the report is therefore not of much consequence in this case especially as the names were disclosed in full at the time of the inquest.
We think Rasika and Subhana are telling the truth when they say that these two accused were also there but we think that because of that they think they must have joined in the attack and so have added that detail to their story.
We refer to the other eye witnesses here to show that there is no discrepancy on this point but we only rely on Rasikabai and Subhana for determining the fact Bhilia was directly charged with the murder and the injury on the throat is ascribed to him in the charge.
We uphold his conviction under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
Tukia s conviction under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code was therefore jusified.
Section 149 is therefore out of the question.
In the present case there is no evidence of any prior meeting.
1096 Bhilia Tukia and Nilia are Lambadas Pandurang is a Hatkar and Tukaram a Maratha.
There was evidence that they all ran away together not simply that they ran away at the same moment of time when discovered but that they ran away together.
1097 similarity of the facts in one case cannot be used to determine a conclusion of fact in another.
We do not intend to examine that here because we are of opinion that the sentence should be reduced to transportation in these two cases mainly because of the difference of opinion in the High Court not only on the question of guilt but also on that of sentence.
