Special leave granted in all the cases.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
We are concerned in these appeals with the vires and interpretation of this proviso.
The writ petitions were rejected by the High Court on the ground that the preference contemplated by the proviso to section 637 contemplated exclusion of the non preferred  class if sufficient number of applicants from the preferred classes were available.
A public service vehicle is defined in section 225 as any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward and includes a motor cab contract carriage and stage carriage.
Sections 46 47 and 48 deal with the grant of stage carriage permits.
Section 68 F1 prescribes that where in pursuance of an approved scheme a State Transport Undertaking applies for a stage carriage permit a contract carriage permit or a public carrier s permit in respect of a notified area or notified route such permit shall be granted to the State Transport Undertaking by the State Transport Authority in a case where the said area or route lies in more than one region and the Regional Transport Authority in any other case.
The proviso to section 471 for example provides that other conditions being equal an application for a stage carriage permit from a cooperative society or a person holding a valid licence for driving transport vehicles shall as far as may be be given preference over applications from individual owners.
While it is true that section 471 H does not expressly refer to other things being equal it appears to be implicit in the provision that other things are equal.
That is how section 471 H was interpreted in Sher Singh s case.
47 the application of the Undertaking for an inter State route shall be examined as application of any other private operator.
Since the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court have failed to consider the merits of the claims of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation and the private operators who did not get a certificate of approval from the Central Government because of the rule of preference contained in proviso to section 637 the proper course for us is to set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and to direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to re hear the appeals and dispose them of in accordance with law after considering the claims of the eligible applicants in the manner indicated in Sher Singh s case and now.
Clauses i to iii of the proviso providing for preference to be given to applications for permits from the Indian Tourism Development Corporation the State Tourism Development Corporation and the State Tourist Department were not questioned but the preference provided for by clause iv and to be given to such operators of tourist cars or such travel agents as may be approved in this behalf by the Ministry dealing in tourism was questioned as an infringement of article 14 of the Constitution.
Though the permits to be granted are for tourist vehicles the preference is confined to operators of tourist cars and travel agents.
637 of the .
and should be financially sound or that they should be owning and operating five vehicles as tourist taxies of either indigenous make or acquired from elsewhere regardless of the period in the car hire business or that they should be ex Defence Service personnel who satisfy certain prescribed conditions.
PSS Appeals allowed.
