From the.
The appeal under section 291 of the hereinafter called the Act is directed against the judgment and order of the High Court of Allahabad dated 6th of January 1971.
The asses see Dr RS Gupta had maintained an account in the books of Messrs Tika Ram and Sons Pvt.
Rs25000 Om Prakash Gupta .
On the same day ie on ist January 1957 Om Parkash Gupta wrote to the assessee his father thanking him for the gift of Rs25000 made in his favour and the gift of Rs50000 in favour of his son Pravin.
But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
Section 123 of the said Act deals with how transfers are effected and stipulates inter alia that for the purpose of making a gift of movable property as in this case the transfer must be effected either by a registered instrument signed by the donor and attested or by delivery.
The assessee claimed to have gifted the said amounts by transfer entries in the books of Ms Pearls  Beads on 30th March 1957.
34 and 5 were answered in the negative.
In order to constitute a valid gift there must be an existing property.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
It is possible in certain circumstances for a donor to make a valid gift by instructing a firm or a company or a HUF in which the donor has an account to give effect to the gift by debiting his account and crediting the account in the name of the donee.
Reference may also be made for this proposition to the decision of the Delhi High Court in New India Colour Co vs Commissioner of IncomeTax New Delhi The effect of the two aforesaid decisions of the learned fudges of the Delhi High Court indicates that in case there was not sufficient cash balance from out of which the amount gifted could be physically given to the donee more entries in the books of account in the form would not constitute delivery of possession over the gifted property to the donee and gift in such case will not be valid.
Such delivery may be in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
It was held by the Bombay High Court that there was no valid gift.
Separate accounts in their names were opened in the books and in their accounts the credits were entered.
Interest on the amounts was also credited in the accounts regularly for some time until a bank from which C had obtained an overdraft objected to such crediting of interest.
Where moneys were actually paid by way of interest on the alleged gifts those became completed gifts.
The Allahabad High Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax UPv Smt.
Shyamo Bibi had to deal with a case where the credit balance of 2 12 lakhs was with the firm.
Balance of the firm was only Rs 15.
It was held that the gift was not valid.
There the assessee was the karta of a Hindu undivided family.
On 20th November 1956 the assessee purported to transfer Rs50000 from his account to the account of his son.
But in that case the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
