The appointed day for the purposes of the Act is therefore September 1 1956.
Transfer of service of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation 1 Every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with his controlled business immediately before the appointed day shall on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corporation and shall hold his office therein by the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privi leges as to pen 190 sion and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if this Act had not been passed and shall continue to do so unless and until his employ ment in the Corporation is terminated or until his remuneration terms and conditions are duly altered by the Corporation Provided that nothing contained in this sub section shall apply to any such employee who has by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to the ap pointed day intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
The conditions of service of these transferred employ ees of the Corporation whose services were transferred to the Corporation under section 111 of the Act were not uniform.
Thereafter sub section 2 of sec tion 11 of the Act read as follows 2 Where the Central Government is satisfied that for the purpose of securing uniformity in the scales of remuner ation and the other terms and conditions of service applica ble to employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation it is necessary so to do or that in the interest of the Corpora tion and its policy holders a reduction in the remuneration payable or a revision of the other terms and 193 conditions of service applicable to employees or any class of them is called for the Central Government may notwith standing anything contained in sub section 1 or in the  or in any other law for the time being in force or in any award settlement or agree ment for the time being in force alter whether by way of reduction or otherwise the remuneration and the other terms and conditions of service to such extent and in such manner as it thinks fit and if the alteration.
is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employ ment by giving him compensation equivalent to three months  remuneration unless the contract of service with such em ployee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
To remove the above doubt by Act 17 of 1957 section 49 of the Act was amended by introducing clause bb in sub section 2 of section 49 of the Act which expressly conferred power on the Corporation to make regulations with the previous approval of the Central Government as regards the terms and condi tions of service of persons who have become employees of the Corporation under sub section 1 of section 11 .
 The above regulation fixed the age of retirement of an employee at 55 years while empowering the authority to extend the service of an employee at its discretion every year upto 60 years of age.
Clause 6 of that order originally read as follows 6.
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
The relevant part of the amended regulation 19 which was noti fied on 1961965 read thus 191.
An employee belonging to Class III or Class IV and a transferred employee belonging to Class I or Class II shall retire on completion of age 60 but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
All the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV irrespective of the fact whether they were transferred employees or employees appointed after 1st September 1956 were entitled to continue in service till 60 years of age but the employees belonging to Class I and Class II who were appointed to the service of the Corpora tion on or after 1st September 1956 had to retire on the completion of 58 years of age subject to the usual clause relating to premature retirement.
In other words the contention of the 1st Respondent before the High Court was that since he had the fight to continue in service if he had remained in Class III only till he attained the age of 60 years as a Class III employee by virtue of the settlement and the amendment of the regula tion 19 in the year 1965 the age of retirement in his case could not be reduced to 58 years only because he had been promoted to a Class I post.
It was pleaded by them that on the establishment of the Corporation under the Act it became necessary to continue the services of the employees of the erstwhile insurers whose life insurance business was taken over by the Corporation to run the business of the Corpora tion because the Corporation had no employees of its own in the month of September 1956 when it was established.
The Central Government and the Corporation felt that 60 years of age could be a proper age of retirement in the circumstances in respect of the transferred employees and that was the reason why by regulation 19 and the standardisation order issued earlier in the case of certain classes of transferred em ployees under section 112 of the Act the retirement age was fixed at 60 years and this was done with a view to retaining the services of the experienced employees of the erstwhile insurers.
Sub section.
Sub section.
The power under this part of sub section.
The second limb of sub section.
Sub section.
Admittedly the first limb of sub section.
That the two provisions of sub section.
2 of section 11 can be exercised more than once.
I am not impressed by the circumstances that the original Bill moved in Parliament for amending sub section.
The observation made by Pathak J in the course of his judgment that there is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section 2 in respect of transferred employeesbeing struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees is signifi cant.
Their complaint was that the Rules created without any valid justification two cadres the State cadre and the provincialised cadre the former including not only the Government School teachers but also those recruited after October 1 1957 and posted in the provincialised schools that by reason of having two cadres and providing for both a uniform 15 per cent for selection grade posts coupled with making the provincialised cadre a diminishing one the result had been that teachers deemed to have been appointed to the State cadre with effect from October 1 1957 and even those recruited thereafter had been promoted to the selec tion grade while those in the provincialised cadre though senior in service and performed identical duties and had identical scales of pay remained in the ordinary grade.
 It has to be observed in the case before us also that the transferred employees belong to a diminishing cadre.
v The State of Haryana  Ors.
 supra clearly applies to the case before us also.
In the Settlement which was arrived at between the management and the Class III and Class IV em ployees recruited after 1st September 1956 it was agreed that there should be no discrimination as regards the age of retirement between the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV categories amongst the transferred employees and the Class III and Class IV employees recruited after 1st September 1956.
2        cc.
We may at this stage refer to a recent decision of this Court in Miss Lena Khan vs Union of India and Ors.
 JT decided on 303.
As may be seen from that rule the classification of the employees was made on the basis of the date of entry into the service of the Government.
On appeal the judgment of the High Court was affirmed by this Court in Railway Board vs A Pitchumani supra.
It may be so.
