The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATH MISRA J.
The petitioner of this application under Article 32 of the Constitution is an engineer who was employed in the Central Public Works Department under the Ministry of Works and Housing in Government of India and was compulsorily retired by order dated 381976 with effect from 5111976 made under Rule 56j of the Fundamental Rules.
1954 and came to be confirmed as Section Officer by an order dated 8101955.
On 371961 he was further promoted as officiating Executive Engineer in Class I service but on 491965 he was reverted to the post of Assistant Engineer in officiating position and was con tinuing in that post when he was compulsorily retired.
Sd VR .
1954 and contin ued to hold that post when the order of compulsory retire ment was passed.
bird who may have to go back to the substantive post from which he has been promoted on an officiating basis what is more to the point a person who has been appointed de novo may begin his service on an officiating basis or on a tempo rary basis and it is obvious that he has no right to the post and cannot be strictly said to be in that service or post as a member of that service.
We have already indicated that sub clause ii did not apply to the facts of this case as the petitioner had not attained the age of 55 years by the date of the order.
The observations made in Tahiliani s case indisputably support the petitioner.
But the correct ness thereof is disputed by learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India and that is why this writ petition was directed to be heard by a larger Bench.
A person can be in Class I or Class II service or post even when he hold a post of either class substantively or temporarily or on officiating basis.
The purpose of Fundamental Rules 56j is to confer power on the appropriate authority to compulsorily retire Government servant in the public interest and the classification of Government servants into two categories covered by sub clauses i and ii has a purpose behind it.
If the condi tion indicated in sub clause i is satisfied namely the Government servant is in Class I or Class II service or post and he had entered into service before attaining the age of 35 years and has attained the age of fifty the further condition that he must substantively belong to the two classes of service or post cannot be introduced into the scheme.
Such judgments have become final and Union of India has given effect to the decisions of the Delhi High Court.
Even if the writ petition is allowed and the order of compulsory retirement is set aside the petitioner cannot go back to service.
1976 and 292.
There will be no order for costs.
WRIT PETITION NOS.
The facts of each of these applications are more or less similar to those in Writ Petition No 7338 of 1981 which we have disposed of today.
They would however be entitled to salary and other service allowances payable to them from the date of compulsory retirement till the date of their normal superannuation.
HLC Petition allowed.
