Civil Appeal No 8440 of 1983.
MK Ramamurthy and AK Sanghi for the Appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
A non journalist newspaper employee means any person employed to do any work in or in relation to any newspaper establishment but does not include any such person who is a working journalist or is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or being employed in a supervisory capacity performs either by the nature of the duties attached to his office or by reason of the powers vested in him functions mainly of a managerial nature as stated in section 2dd of the Act.
Chapter II of the Act deals with certain conditions of service of the working journalists.
Those provisions relate to the retrenchment payment of gratuity hours of work leave fixation or revision of wages etc.
Section 13AA which was inserted by Act 6 of 1979 provides for the constitution of a Tribunal for fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists where the Central Government is of opinion that the Board constituted under section 9 for the purpose of fixing or revising rates of wages in respect of working journalists under the Act has not been able to function effectively.
Section 13AA and section 13DD of the Act came into force with effect from January 31 1979.
In exercise of its powers under section 12 of the Act the Central Government accepted a part of the recommendations and made an order thereon on 26121980 and accepted the remaining part of the recommendations and made another order thereon on 2071981.
The 1st respondent also did not send a reply to the questionnaire issued by the Tribunal nor it gave any evidence before the Tribunal in respect of the matters referred to therein.
Initially the State of Maharashtra the Commissioner of Labour and the Deputy Labour Commissioner Nagpur had been impleaded as respondents.
It was urged before the High Court on behalf of the Ist respondent All India Reporter Limited that the law reports publised by it were not newspapers as defined in the Act and therefore the order made by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations of Justice Palekar were not applicable to its establishment.
The Ist respondent All India Reporter Limited publishes in addition to the law reports referred in the first paragraph of this judgment several other books commentaries digests and manuals.
The definition of the expression newspaper has already been set out above.
 Newspapers and books are no doubt shown as separate items but the distinction between them sometimes becomes very thin or totally vanishes.
In this connection it is necessary to reproduce a passage from the Report of the Royal Commission on the Press 1947 49 appointed by the British Government and presided over by Sir William David Ross.
It reads thus The newspaper and periodical Press of Great Britain consists of over 4000 publications ranging from newspapers famous throughout the world to the journals of obscure societies.
The term newspaper  is usually applied except so far as concerns the important class of trade newspapers to publications devoted mainly to recording current events and periodicals  to magazines reviews and journals which in so far as they are concerned with current events at all are concerned to comment rather than to report but newspapers merge into advertising sheets periodicals into books and pamphlets and both into one another   The expression news is not defined in the Act.
It is enough if we refer to the meaning of the word news given in the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary for purposes of this case.
It says that news means tidings new information of recent events new occurrences as a subject of report or talk.
It cannot be disputed that these decisions are of public importance.
Even apart from Article 141 of the Constitution the decisions of the Supreme Court which is a court of record constitute a 783 source of law as they are the judicial precedents of the highest court of the land.
They are binding on all the courts throughout India.
Those decisions also carry persuasive value before courts which are not situated within its territory.
At any rate lawyers and others connected with courts and judicial proceedings who constitute a substantial section of the public are interested in knowing the contents and the effect of the decisions.
Infact we have a law report which is published from Delhi which publishes the judgments rendered by the Supreme Court within a day or two.
We are of the view that any decision published in the law reports of the Ist respondent contain information about the recent events which have taken place in the Supreme Court or in the High Courts which are public bodies and these are matters in which the public is interested.
We find it also difficult to agree with the submission made on behalf of the Ist respondent that since the law reports are going to be preserved by the lawyers as reference books after getting them rebound subsequently they should be treated as books.
It may be that the decisions contained in these law reports may cease to be items of news after some time but when they are received by the subscribers they do possess the character of works containing news.
Accordingly the High Court of Orissa held that the sale of Cuttack Law Times which according to it was not a newspaper could be taxed by the State Legislature under Entry 54 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.
 It is seen that the editor of the law report containing the above decision has appended an editorial comment on this stating that this decision is wrong and that the Orissa High Court s decision was right.
Justice AN Grover who later became a Judge of the Supreme Court of India and the Chairman of the Press Council as a Judge of the Punjab  Haryana High Court held in LD Jain vs General Manager Government of India Press and Others ILR 1967 Punjab and Haryana 193 that the Gazette of India which was the official publication of all kinds of news and information was a newspaper within the meaning of section 2b of the Working Journalists Conditions of Service and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1955 and that it was not essential for a newspaper to conform strictly to the usual pattern of a daily or weekly or monthly newspaper or a magazine containing news which members of the public ordinarily read in order to get reports of recent events comments on them etc.
In doing so he distinguished the decision of the Australian Court in Ex Parte Stillwell in which the Bradshaw s Guide was held to be a book of reference which lacked every element of what could be called a newspaper on which the Orissa High Court had relied.
In the Annual Report of the Registrar of Newspapers for India 1957 there is an interesting discussion of certain specific cases in which the question whether the publications involved were newspapers or not.
Even technical journals such as medical periodicals journals related to sciences arts etc were included.
A catalogue of Yugoslav newspapers and magazines for instance includes publications relating to the following subjects Political information economics law and states administration education philology natural sciences medicine agriculture technology geography ethnography history archives archaeology literature music applied art film chess photography tourism stamp collecting physical culture and sport humour and religion.
Law reports also contain newly enacts Acts Rules and Regulations book reviews and advertisements relating to law books handwriting and finger print experts etc.
 speeches made at conferences in which the legal fraternity is interested etc.
We are of the view that the law reports published by the Ist respondent are newspapers and the employees employed by the Ist respondent in their production or publication of the said law reports should be extended the benefit of the orders passed by the Central Government on the basis of the recommendations made by the Palekar Award.
There will however be no order as to costs.
SL Appeal allowed.
