ivil Appeal Nos.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
The same were allowed by the Collector Appeals.
Collector.
Reliance was placed by Shri Salve as well as by the learned Attorney General appearing on behalf of the revenue on the relevant provisions of the Act and the position as explained by this Court in Union of India  Ors.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd  981 Shri Salve has however contended that so far as this Court is concerned this question is concluded by the deci sion of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd Learned Attorney General however contended that this decision did not deal with the present controversy.
The Asstt.
3 SCR 123.
Explanation.
For the purposes of this sub clause the amount of the duty of excise payable on any excisable goods shall be the sum total of a the effective duty of excise payable on such goods under this Act and b the aggregate of the effective duties of excise payable under other Central Acts if any providing for the levy of duties of excise on such goods  and the effective duty of excise on such goods under each Act referred to in clause a or clause b shall be i in a case where a notification or order providing for any exemption not being an exemption for giving credit with respect to for reduction or duty of excise under such Act on such goods equal to any duty of excise under such Act or the additional duty under Section 3 of the 51 of 1975 already paid on the raw material or component parts used in the production or manufacture of such goods from the duty of excise under such Act is for the time being in force the duty of excise computed with refer ence to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods as reduced so as to give full and complete effect to such exemption and ii in any other case the duty of excise computed with reference to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods.
According to the learned Attorney General since the Act provides for only one exception to this measure namely non inclusion of the cost of such packing where the packing is durable in nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee in all other cases the cost of the packing would have to be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods where such goods are delivered at the time of removal in packed condition.
It is only that degree of secondary packing which is necessary for assessable articles to be in the condition in which it is generally sold in the wholesale market which can be included at the factory gate which should be included in the value of the article.
In the premises the value of the drums with regard to the fusel oilstyrene monomer irrespective of whether these were supplied by the assessee or not are not includible in the assessable value of the Styrene Monomer.
