A No 4 of 1977.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by FATHIMA BEEVI J.
This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 27101979 of the High Court of Madras con firming the conviction of the appellant under section 161 I PC and under section 336 52 read with section 51d of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
PW 3 the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1 Venkataswamy the canteen contractor as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
When PW 1 emerged PW 6 along with PW 2 confronted the appellant.
The appellant produced the currency notes.
At the trial the prosecution witnesses supported the case.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 2210.
Before the High Court the contentions of the appellant were that there was no independent evidence regarding the demand the messenger who had contacted PW 1 at the 337 behest of the appellant had not been examined the solitary evidence of PW 1 is insufficient the explanation offered by the appellant was probable and there is no conclusive evi dence to hold that the appellant.
was guilty.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 41 of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
The case of Dipawali gift or return of a loan given to PW 1 has not been even suggested.
It cannot therefore be said that there had been consistent explanation for the appellant.
P 2 memo had been issued on the basis of the complaint received from the appellant that on getting the explanation from PW 1 he on 18101975 itself passed orders and closed the file.
Of course it is open to that person to show that though that money was not due to him as legal remuneration it was legally due to him in some other manner or that he had received it under a transaction or an arrangement which was lawful.
The burden resting on the accused person in such a case would not be as light as it is where a presumption is raised under section 114 of Evidence Act and cannot be held to be discharged merely by reason of the fact that the explanation offered by the accused is reasonable and probable.
NVK Appeal dismissed.
