1947 and related to Door No 2 Item No1 in Schedule A to the plaint.
The second lease deed Ext.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 93.
P 1  P 2.
The present appeal by Special Leave granted on 37.
675 the latter is strictly confined to the terms of the statute creating it.
When a petition under section 4 is filed the Rent Controller on the language of section 4 has to decide 1 whether the applicant is a tenant in or landlord of the building and 2 what the fair rent of the premises should be in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
It was therefore not open to the High Court to entertain a collateral attack on the validity of binding nature or correctness of the order of the Court of Small Causes and to consider and determine afresh the issue as to whether the LIC is the owner of the premises as claimed or not.
It was sought to be argued on behalf of the petitioners that the respondent had no jurisdiction to determine the question as to whether the premises were at one time let out as a whole and then let out in parts as was sought to be contended by the applicants  .
Thirdiv even assuming the argument of learned counsel to be correct all that can be said is that in the second set of proceedings the tenants could have contended that it was not open to the Court of Small Causes to go into the question of title in view of the decision in the first set of proceedings.
as the case may be.
But we think Sri Parasaran is right in saying that since the Rent Controller has no jurisdiction to entertain an application except by a landlord or a tenant the ques tion of title to the property is one on which his very jurisdiction depends.
Per contra he may reach the conclusion on the materials before him that the landlord has no title yet it seems if he finds that the applicant is otherwise a landlord and that the grounds on which the tenant s denial was based were not bona fide he will have to order eviction.
It has long been held that a question of title in a Small Cause suit can be regarded as incidental only to the substantial issue in the suit and cannot operate 8as res judicata in a subsequent suit in which the question of title is directly raised  .
vs Smt.
This contention was upheld by the appellate court and the High Court.
It also took a technical plea that the decision of the Additional Settlement Officer that the suit land was poramboke and not ryoti  land was final and the Civil Court s jurisdiction to decide that question was barred under section 64 C of the Tamil Nadu Estates Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari Act 1948 which ran as follows 64 C Finality of orders passed under this Act 1 Any order passed by the Government or other authority under this Act in respect of matters to be determined for the purposes of this Act shall subject only to any appeal or revision provided by or under this Act be final.
We are concerned with the jurisdiction of a civil court.
If the civil court in this case had come to the conclusion that there is a relationship of a landlord and a tenant and that the LIC was entitled to recover the rent from the tenants it will have to pass a decree in favour of the LIC on the basis of the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller.
The appeal is therefore dismissed.
