ivil Misc.
Petition No 15001 of 1989.
K Mahadeva Reddy Ms Manjul Gupta TVSN Chari and A Subba Rao for the Petitioner.
K Ram Kumar SA Ahmed Tanweer Abdul and Mohan Pandey for the Respondents.
We shall therefore confine the discussion to matters pertinent to the compromise.
Subbamma adopted one KV Seshiah.
Seshiah married two wives.
Through the first wife he had a son born to him by name Sudarshan Gupta and through the second another son by name Anand Babu.
In February 1985 during the pendency of the special leave petition the adoptive mother died.
Sudarshan and Anand Babu led claim to the entire property of Subbamma exclusively to each of them under two different wills said to be by subbamma and each contended that the other will was a forged one.
The question as to recording of the compromise was taken up by the Court and parties have been heard.
The alienees 541 have now been brought on record unders order of this Court.
The alienations are for about a purported consideration of Rs 4 lakhs.
The alienees have admittedly been in possession of the property from the date of the sales which is more than three years  old by now.
Admittedly the transfers are pendente lite.
In fact if the compromise is valid and binding the alienor respondent No 2 had no interest in the property to part with in view of the stipulation in the compromise that on receipt of Rs 1 lakh he relinquished his entire interest in the property.
The alienees have made an attempt to hold out that there were agreements for sale prior to the compromise for which there is no acceptable evidence.
The factum of compromise is not in dispute.
He sought to rely on certain decisions which on being referred to were found to be totally inapplicable to the facts of the case.
On the other hand we find that a similar question arose before the Orissa High Court in the case of Bhoja Govinda Maikap  Anr.
We direct that the compromise petition shall be accepted and in terms thereof the suit shall be disposed of and the terms of the compromise shall form part of the order to be drawn up in this Court for disposing of the special leave petition.
With a view to settling all equities between the parties and with the consent of Seshiah who is present in Court and counsel for the sons and after hearing the Advocate for the alienees we make the following directions 1.
Seshaiah shall pay a sum of Rs 1 lakh more to Sudarshan Gupta within eight weeks from today.
Rs 77124 being the amount paid by the alienees before the Sub Registrar in respect of the sale deeds shall be deposited within the same period in the Trial Court and the alienees of the different sale deeds would be entitled to withdraw the amounts on the basis of the record made by the Sub Registrar on each of the sale deeds.
The alienees have no right created under the alleged sale deeds.
Their possession is without authority of law.
Ordinarily they would have been liable to account for mesne profits.
In view of the fact that there was the allegation of payment of Rs 1 lakh to Sudarshan Gupta which we have not investigated and to meet the further allegation that some improvements have been made to the property which too we have not gone into we direct that the mesne profits shall be set off against the same.
Under orders of this Court security has been furnished for mesne profits.
We declare and clarify that none of the sale deeds is valid and none of the alienees has any interest in the aforesaid property.
543 4.
If necessary the Trial Court may appoint a Commissioner and take police help for executing this order and such cost shall ultimately be borne by the defaulting alienees but may initially be met by Seshiah.
There would be no order for costs.
