In Appeal No 260 58 a further question arose whether in the case of 259 that assessee the year ending June 30 1949 was the previous year for the assessment year 1950 51 with the result that it should be assessed under the Indian Income tax Act of 1922.
The assesse made a profit in Travancore State and incurred a loss in the State of Cochin and sought to deduct this loss from the profit of Travancore State thus showing a net profit of Rs 2643.
This was not allowed by the Income tax Officer and on appeal this order was confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
Indian Act.
2  258.
From 1922 to 1939 in order to be taxable income profits and gains had to be received or had to accrue in British India.
Now we come to section 241.
The Privy Council in Arunachalam Chettiar vs Commissioner of Income tax1 held that this section was meant for a set off of profits arising under different heads and not where profits and losses had to be adjusted if they arose under the same head.
But it was contended on behalf of the Revenue that the first proviso to section 241 of the Indian Act not only affected the generality of the main enactment but also introduced an addendum that where the profits of the business arose in what was British India in the case of the Indian Act or what was Travancore State in the case of the Travancore Act and the losses under the head business were sustained in an Indian State or in the latter case in any other Indian State or British India these losses could not by virtue of the proviso be deducted from profits made in British India or Travancore State as the case may be.
It carves out an exception to the main provision to which it has been enacted as a proviso and to no other .
It has to operate in the same field and if the language of the main enactment is clear it cannot be used for the purpose of interpreting the main enactment or to exclude by implication what the enactment clearly says unless the words of the proviso are such that that is its necessary effect.
Vide also Corporation of The City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada 1.
It is significant that in sections 213 and 5 of the Indian Act of 1918 corresponding to sections 215 and 6 of the Indian Act of 1922 the word used was income  which in the latter Act was expanded into  income profits and gains .
Thus the mere use of the words loss of profits or gains to be set off against profits and gains would not be sufficient to restrict the scope of the proviso to the profits and losses arising under the head business in the two territories i e British India and the Indian States.
41950 5 269 argument does not take note of the definition of total income total world income  and chargeability of total income under section 3 or the provisions of section 4 where in the case of a resident total income  includes income profits and gains accruing within or without I British India.
But then it was said that as the profits or gains of business in an Indian State were exempted from payment of tax in British India business in section 10 must mean business in British India.
Appeals dismissed.
