August 14.
Thereupon the Board of Revenue passed an order on December 27 1955 declaring that the lease to the appellant had been granted subsequent to July 1 1945 and that as the lease was for a period exceeding one year it was not enforceable against the Government according to the second proviso to section 20 1 of the Abolition Act.
The appellant promptly filed writ petition No 1 of 1956 praying for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the State of Andhra Pradesh to forbear from terminating his leasehold right in the slate quarries.
The long title and the preamble to the Abolition Act indicate it is urged that the object of the Act is to provide for the acquisition of the rights of landholders and that the policy of the Act is not to interfere with the rights of other persons in the estate.
provision for payment of compensation for the determination of rights created before the notified date is provided in sub section.
2 of section 20 of the Abolition Act.
The words foregoing proviso it is conceded refer to the third proviso to sub section.
2 which provide for compensation will not be attracted.
Action taken by the Government under the third proviso to sub section.
In other words the third proviso according to learned counsel 559 for the appellant merely enables the Government to exercise the right conferred on it by the second proviso and therefore the Government if it intends to avail itself of the right under the second proviso must comply with the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
The implications of the second proviso learned counsel for the appellant points out are two fold namely a that all rights created before the notified date but after July 1 1945 for a period not exceeding one year would be valid and enforceable both by and against the Government by the operation of the body of sub section.
1 itself and b that rights created before the notified date but after July 1 1945 for a period exceeding one year would also be valid and enforceable by the Government against the person in whose favour such right had been created by reason of section 201.
2 must therefore be entitled to compensation under sub section.
We are unable to accept this line of argument as correct.
But this is to read the third proviso as a proviso not to the section but to the second proviso and there is no warrant in law for such a construction.
If the third proviso also applies to such leases as the petitioners contend then the lease can be terminated only if the Government is satisfied that it is in the public interest that it should be terminated and that further in such cases the lessee will also be entitled to compensation under section 202.
