March 22.
The plaintiffs and the defendant are adjoining colliery owners at Kujama.
The plaintiffs  land lies immediately to the south of the defendants  land.
On August 2 1894 Raja of Jharia granted mukarrari lease of the coal and coal mining rights in 300 bighas of land in village Kujama to Satya Karan Banerjee and Girish Chandra Samanta.
The plaintiffs case was that as a result of a letter written by the Inspector of Mines on August 18 1941 the plaintiffs made an inquiry and came to know that the defendants had encroached upon their coal mines on the northern side and removed coal from the encroached portion and had rendered the remaining coal of the encroached portion unworkable.
bThat the area encroached upon by the defendants be ascertained and the defendants be directed to vacate the same.
cThat a permanent injunction be issued against the defendants restraining them from encroaching upon the plaintiffs  coal land and cutting and removing coal therefrom.
dThat an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiffs  coal land as also the quantity of the coal rendered unworkable be ascertained and a decree for the value thereof by way of damages be granted to the plaintiffs against the defendants.
On appeal the High Court of Patna accepted all the findings of the learned Subordinate Judge and dismissed the appeal.
The first question that arises for consideration is whether the defendants had encroached Upon the plaintiffs  coal land.
The answer to this question depends upon the correct delineation of the boundary line between the plaintiffs  leasehold and the defendants  leasehold.
On August 2 1894 Raja Jaimangal Singh executed the lease deed exhibit 1 in respect of 300 bighas in favour of the respondents  predecessor in interest.
The foot note to the lease reads measuring 1101 feet in length running north and south by the side of the said Chatkari Jorh and area being 300 bighas by such measurement.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
As the plan is a part of the lease deed it is clear from the plan that the northern boundary of the leasehold of Samanta is the said line.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal that is the predecessor in interest of the appellant demised a plot of 96 bighas carved out from his leasehold to Mathews under a deed exhibit C1.
The map exhibit 3b annexed to the lease deed executed in favour of the respondents  predecessor in interest clearly demarcates the boundary line between the holdings of the appellant and the respondents and according to that plan the disputed extent falls within the boundary of the respondents  holding.
On appeal the High Court accepted the finding.
He denied that he had any knowledge of the said two facts.
But to say that no duty is cast upon the plaintiff even to allege the date when they had knowledge of the defendant s possession of the converted property and that the entire burden is on the defendant is contrary to the tenor of the article in the Limitation Act and also to the rules of evidence.
Appeal dismissed.
