Appeal by special leave from the Award dated March 10 1959 of the Industrial Tribunal.
A V Viswanatha Sastri and T V R Tatachari for the appellant Janardan Sharma for the resondents.
January 29.
This is an appeal by special leave in an industrial matter.
One Sankaran was in the employ of the appellant as a crosscutter.
It is said that on June 21 1958 Sankaran came drunk to they mill and abused the Engineer the Secretary and others and threatened them with physical violence.
He was caught hold of by other workmen and taken outside.
On June 25 1958 Sankaran was informed that in view of his denial a departmental inquiry would be held and he was also placed under suspension pending inquiry.
As no inquiry was held till July 2 1958 Sankaran again wrote to the appellant to hold the inquiry as early as possible.
A dispute was then raised by the union which was referred to the industrial tribunal for adjudication by the Government of Kerala in October 1958.
It further held that the appellant had intended to take disciplinary action against the workman but subsequently departmental proceedings were dropped and action was taken under r 18a of the Standing orders.
The tribunal was of the view that this was a colourable exercise of the power given under r 18a to the appellant and therefore its action could not be upheld as a bona fide exercise of the power conferred.
The tribunal also pointed out that no attempt was made before it to defend the action taken under r 18 a by proving the alleged misconduct.
The tribunal therefore held that on the facts it could not come to the conclusion that Sankaran had come drunk to the mill and abused or attempted to assault either the Engineer or the Secretary or other officers.
The claim thus put forward on behalf of the appellant is that it is entitled under r 18a of the Standing orders which is a term of contract between the appellant and its employees to dispense with the service of any employee at any time by just giving 14 days notice or paying 12 days wages.
We are of opinion that this claim of the appellant cannot be accepted and it is too late in the day for an employer to raise such a claim for it amounts to a claim to hire and fire an employee as the employer pleases and thus completely negatives security of service which has been secured to industrial employees through industrial adjudication for over a long period of time now.
and Assam Oil Company vs Its Workmen 2.
Appeal dismissed.
