March 24 1964.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAS GUPTA J.
This appeal arises out of an industrial dispute as regards the age of retirement.
In July.
1947 the Private Limited Company was converted into a Public Limited Company.
In September 1959 an agreement was entered into between the Company and its employees at Calcutta under which the age of retirement was extended to 58 years subject to the employees passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
Shortly after this the Company s employees at Bombay raised a dispute regarding their retirement age.
Before the Tribunal the Company resisted the workmen s claim but submitted that it was agreeable to introduce for its Bombay employees provisions similar to those which had been introduced by agreement for the Calcutta employees retirement at the age of 58 subject to the employee passing a medical examination on reaching the age of 55.
It is against this decision that the present appeal has been filed by the workmen.
It is interesting to refer in this connection to the information that has been collected by the Pay Commission 1957 59 as regards the pensionable ages prescribed under the Pension Insurance Schemes for employees generally or for industrial 426 employees and under social assistance or universal schemes in forty eight countries in 1954.
According to this the pensionable age is 70 in two countries 67 in another two 65 in twenty four 60 in seventeen 55 in two and 50 in one.
As the Pay Commission Report pointed out This is particularly remarkable considering that the countries differ widely in demographic constitution levels of economic development and climatic and social condition and it indicates a virtual unanimity of competent opinion that balancing the various factors physiological economic and social that are relevant the normal working life should continue up to the age of 60 and may well go on up to 65 years.
It is undoubtedly more useful however and indeed essential for our present purpose to examine the trends in this matter in our own country and specially in the region in which the present dispute has arisen.
If in any particular region employees have been successful in their claim for fixing the age of retirement at 60 this very success is bound to raise in others in the region similar expectations.
In several of these this age had been fixed as far back as 1950 while in the rest the age was fixed in later years that is between 1952 and 1961.
The workmen claim that these showed clearly a tendency in the Bombay region to fix the age of retirement in comparable concerns at 60.
Reliance was placed for this purpose on the Chart exhibit Cl.
There is no indication at all as to how long ago the age of retirement in these concerns was fixed at 55 or at 58.
