The district of Benaras was formerly a part of Oudh territory.
The British Government granted a sanad of Raj to Raja Chet Singh who in turn gave the Jagir of Parganas Seyedpore and Bhittery in perpetuity to Babu Ausan Singh.
It appears that in 1796 there were some disputes between Babu Ausan Singh and the Zamindars in the district and the matter was referred by the Collector of Benaras to the Board of Revenue in Calcutta.
The quantum of this pension was calculated on the basis of 14th of the revenue of the Jagir.
By this arrangement the revenue or land collections of Jagir became payable by the Zamindars direct to the Government and by the grant of the pension Babu Hat Narain Singh and his successors no longer remained the proprietors of the Parganas or the Jagir and became entitled to merely a pension.
He observed that in fact this income arose from a statutory obligation of the Government to pay it and although the Government recouped this from the person with whom the land was settled land in the genealogical tree of Malikana appears in the second degree its immediate and effective source is the Government s statutory obligation to pay it and this obligation is not land within the meaning of Income tax Act vide CITv.
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 43viii of the Income tax Act.
 The learned counsel for the respondent Mr A Viswanatha Sastri urges that on its true interpretation the letter dated July 7 1837 showed an arrangement for sharing collections.
He says that if the assessee s predecessor had received  706 compensation for relinquishing his title to the lands in dispute that would have been a capital receipt and not taxable.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
