5348 of the Desai award.
In the present appeals we are concerned with workmen who entered service before January 1 1959 and the fitment of these workmen was dealt with in para.
5356 of the Desai award and it is this paragraph which calls for interpretation in the present appeals.
1 As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
5356 of the Desai award we may set out the two paragraphs in parallel columns for comparison Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision For workmen who enterd service of the bank before 31st January 1950 1.
1 Desai award For workmen who entered service of the bank before 1st January 1959 i The workman s basic pay as on January 1 1959 shall not be reduced in any case.
3In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing or in the scales fixed by us should be ignored.
4Subject to rules 1 to 3 a workman s basic pay in the new scales shall be fixed in the following manner a A workman shall first be fitted into the scale of pay fixed by our award herein called the new scale by placing him at the stage in the new scale equal to or next above his basic pay as on 31st January 1950 in the pre Sen scale then in force herein called the existing scale.
a the annual increments in the new scale as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of service in the same cadre as on 31st January 1950 up to a limit of 12 years  service hereafter one increment for every four years of service up to another 8 years service and after that one increment for every five years of service.
iii In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing scales or in the scales provided by the Sastry award as modified should be ignored.
in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified will be added thereto for service for the two years of 1960 and 1961.
d of cl.
 The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present case was this.
ii of the Desai award the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1 1962.
The bank further claimed that this being the maximum permissible under cl.
ii and cl.
ii no further increments even under sub cl.
It is urged on behalf of the appellant that the Desai award made certain changes and therefore need not be interpreted in the same way as was done in Prakash Chand Mehra s case1.
b read with sub cl.
b read with sub cl.
d of cl.
d cannot be permitted in view of cl.
d of cl.
ii has to be worked out as on January 1 1959 the two increments provided by sub cl.
d of cl.
a b and c of el.
iv of the Desai award.
Therefore two increments under sub cl.
a b and c of el.
b read with sub cl.
292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision.
b and c of cl.
CA 1008 allowed.
