Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated September 2 1959 of the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
T V R Tatachari for the appellants.
The properties involved in the suit consist of agricultural lands situated in Eragudi village Musiri taluk Tiruchirappalli district.
According to the appellants the said lands had been granted in Inam to the ancestor of one Ambalathadum Pachai Kandai Udayavar by the Carnatic Rulers before the advent of the British power in India.
The original grantdeeds are not available but at the time of the settlement of the Inams in the sixties of the last century Inam title deeds were issued in favour of the family of Pachai Kandai Udayavar.
The said properties were alienated from time to time and as a result of the last alienation the appellants became entitled to them.
The Magistrate however over ruled the claim made by the appellants and directed them to deliver possession of the properties to respondents 1 to 3.
Before this order could be executed and possession delivered to respondents 1 to 3 the appellants instituted the present suit.
Respondents 1 to 3 resisted this suit and contended that the properties in suit had not been granted to the predecessor of Pachai Kandai Udayavar as alleged by the appellants.
In consequence the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
The alternative plea made by the appellants that they had acquired title to the properties by prescription was also upheld by the trial Judge.
The alienations must therefore be regarded only as repudiation of the trust.
In other words he negatived the appellants  claim that the original grant was in favour of their predecessors intitle though burdened with an obligation to render service to the matam.
Having thus held that the properties belonged to the Temple the learned Judge proceeded to consider the question of limitation by reference to the several alienations with which the present litigation is concerned.
The High Court held that the properties covered by these sale deeds fell within the purview of article 134 B and the appellants  title in respect thereof was open to challenge.
A 3 A 6 and A 12 show that the alienors purported to transfer the properties not as Poojaris or managers of a temple but in their individual character as owners of the said properties.
125 Mr Tatachari also argues that in applying article 144 we must assume that the possession of the alienees was adverse to the temple from the respective dates of the alienations when they were put in possession of the properties covered by the transactions in question.
 He also added that transfer would similarly be void and limitation would run from the date of the transfer if the manager transfers the property as his own prop and not as the property of the deity.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
Article 134 covers suits brought with a view to recover possession of immovable property conveyed or bequeathed in trust or mortgaged and afterwards transferred by the trustee or mortgagee for a valuable consideration.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
127 and transferred the endowed property the sales were null and void in the absence of a custom allowing them and that the possession taken by the purchaser was adverse to the vendors and those claiming under them.
In appreciating the effect of this decision it is necessary to bear in mind that the plea of limitation with which the Privy Council was concerned in that case was based on article 124 of the Limitation Act.
It may be permissible to state that this latter observation was made in 1899 long before the Privy Council enunciated the true legal position in regard to the status of the managers of Hindu religious endowments in Vidya Varuthi s case1.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
Column 1 of article 134 B provides for suits brought inter alia by the manager of a Hindu religious or charitable endowment to recover possession of immovable property comprised in the endowment which has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
