This is an appeal by the State of West Bengal from a judgment of a Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta quashing the conviction of the respondent by the Special Court established under sec tion 3 of the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance 1949 Ordinance No 3 of 1949 which was replaced in March 1950 by the West Bengal Special Courts Act 1950 West Bengal Act X of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act.
 Sections 6 to 15 prescribe the special procedure which the court has to follow in the trial of the cases referred to it.
The main features of such procedure which mark a departure from the established procedure for criminal trials under the Code of Criminal Procedure are the elimination of the committal procedure in sessions cases and the substitu tion of the procedure laid down in the Code for trial of warrant cases by the Magistrate trial without jury or assessors restriction of the court s power in granting adjournments special powers to deal with refractory accused and dispensation of de novo trial on transfer of a case from one special court to another.
In other words the purpose of section 5 1 is to define the jurisdiction of a special court appointed under the Act and not the scope of the power conferred on the State Gov ernment to refer cases to such court.
The first part of the article which appears to have been adopted from the Irish Constitution is a declaration of equality of the civil rights of all persons within the territories of India and thus enshrines what American Judges regard as the basic principle of republi canism cf.
The second part which is a corollary of the first and is based on the last clause of the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Ameri can Constitution enjoins that equal protection shall be secured to all such persons in the enjoyment of their rights and liberties without discrimination or favouritism or as an American Judge put it it is a 1 17 Am.
And as the prohibition under the article is directed against the State which is defined in article 12 as including not only the legislatures but also the Governments in the country article 14 secures all persons within the territories of India against arbitrary laws as well as arbitrary application of laws.
Thus the rea sonableness of classification comes into question only in those cases where special legislation affecting a class of persons is challenged as discriminatory.
 These decisions seem to my mind to reveal a change of approach marked by an increasing respect for the State s regulatory power in dealing with equal protection claims and underline the futility of wordy formulation of so called tests in solving problems presented by concrete cases.
It is to be noted that the law was administered ie not merely applied in a few stray cases but regularly and systematically applied making a hostile discrimination against a particular class of persons on grounds of race and colour.
Such systematic discriminatory administration in practice of the ordinance though impartial on its face was evidently taken to give rise to the inference that it was designed to be so adminis tered.
For instance in Atchison Topeka  Santa Fe R Co vs Matthews1 it was said In that case Yick Wo s case 2 a municipal ordinance of San Francisco designed to prevent the Chinese from carrying on the laundry business was adjudged void.
Indeed it does not by its own force make the special procedure provided in the Act applicable to the trial of any offence or classes of offences or classes of cases for it is the State Government s notification under the section that attracts the application of the procedure.
By the process of classification the State has the power of determining who should be regarded as a class for pur poses of legislation and in relation to a law enacted on a particular subject.
The article lays down that the State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.
His first line of argument is that quite apart from the question of classification there has been no infringement of article 14 of the Constitution in the present case.
 In order to be a proper classification so as not to offend against the Constitution it must be based on some intelligible differentia which should have a reason able relation to the object of the Act as recited in the preamble.
Discrimination may not appear in the statute itself but may be evident in the administration of the law.
 Bose J We are concerned here with article 14 of the Constitution and in particular with the words equality before the law and equal protection of the law.
