The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Bhargava J.
The special leave in this Court was sought and granted in respect of two matters covering some of these items.
the view that there were other industries in the region in which minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the Company but failed to fix the minimum wages in the award in accordance with the minimum wages being paid in those industries.
Even the profits earned were much smaller.
TIffs is a finding of fact recorded by the Tribunal and nothing has been shown by learned counsel for the Company which would induce us to interfere with this finding of fact.
On this finding it is clear that the region cure industry principle laid down in the ease of French Motor Car Co Ltd 1 could not have been applied by the Tribunal when fixing the wages in the Company.
 In the light of these views which were brought to the notice of the Tribunal the Tribunal proceeded to consider the minimum wages paid by three Collieries Orient Colliery Ibe Colliery and Himgiri Rampur Colliery the Rourkela Steel Plant the Cement Factory at Rajgangpur and the Indian Aluminum Company Hirakud which the Tribunal found were situated not very far away from the place where the Company had its factory.
We think that the criticism of learned counsel for the workmen that the Tribunal committed an error at this stage in merely holding that the facts found by it justified a revision and in not proceeding to fix minimum wages on the basis of the other industries in the region is fully justified.
The workmen in their written statement had relied on the wage structure in these concerns obviously on the basis that they were comparable.
It appears to us that an Industrial Tribunal has the discretion in appropriate cases of making a direction linking the dearness allowance element of a wage to the Price Index but at the same time the Tribunal is entitled to choose the alternative course of fixing the wage at the prevailing Price Index and leaving the labour to raise a fresh demand and if necessary a fresh industrial dispute for further rise in wages in case there is marked variation in the Price Index and the wage fixed in the award becomes out dated.
