Appeal No 1940 of 1967.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
A building in the town of Ahmedabad used as a cinematograph theatre belonged originally to Messrs Popatlal Punjabhai.
By an agreement dated November 27 1954 between Raval and Faraqui on the one hand and Messrs Filmistan Distributors India Private Ltd hereinafter called Filmistan on the other hand right to exhibit cinematograph films was granted to the latter on certain terms and conditions.
By an order dated December 1 1960 the suit was disposed of as compromised.
It was inter alia agreed that Raval and Faraqui were bound and liable to allow Filmistan to exercise its exhibition rights in the theatre that Raval and Faraqui their servants and agents were not to have any right to exhibit any picture in contravention of the terms and conditions of the agreement dated November 27 1954 and that Raval and Faraqui shall execute and register an agreement in writing incorporating the said agreement with the variation as to rental.
in the theatre and that one Shabeer Hussain Khan Tejabwala had no right title or interest in the theatre that the defendants in the suit be ordered to hand over vacant and peaceful possession of the theatre and the defendants their servants and agents be restrained by an injunction from interfering directly or indirectly with its rights to obtain and remain in possession of the theatre or any part thereof and to exercise its right of exhibiting motion pictures and entertainment performances etc.
After issues were raised on June 20 1966 the plaint was amended and additional written statements were filed by the Defendants.
The learned Judge was then requested to frame three additional issues in view of the amended pleadings  the issues were 1.
The learned Judge observed that the issues were not purely of law that in any event the case or any part thereof was not likely to be disposed of on these issues and that ordinarily in appealable cases the Court should as far as possible decide all the issues together and that piecemeal trial might result in protracting the litigation.
A revision application against that order was dismissed in limine by the High Court of Gujarat.
The Trial Judge observed that he had carefully gone through the consent decree and the registered agreement dated December 1 1960 and he found that the consent decree had not decided that the transaction between the parties of the year 1954 was in the nature of a lease that in the plaint in the earlier suit it was not even averred that the rights granted were in the nature of leasehold rights that suit No 149 of 1960 was for declaration of the rights of Filmistan to exhibit motion pictures in the theatre under the agreement dated November 27 1954 and for an injunction restraining the defendants from violating the said rights of Filmistan under the agreement and that the agreement dated December 1 1960 was not plain enough to exclude the oral evidence of the surrounding circumstances and conduct of the parties to explain its terms and language.
But the only thing that can be said is that so far as the agreement of November 27 1954 is con cerned it must be held in view of the consent decree of December 1 1960 that that document of November 27 1954 created a lease .
442 This Court observed in Major section section Khanna vs Brig.
A case may be said to be decided if the Court adjudicates for the purposes of the suit some right or obligation of the parties in controversy every order in the suit cannot be regarded as a case decided within the meaning of section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
