The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hegde J.
It is a partnership firm.
For the assessment year 1960 61 relevant to the accounting year 1959 60 after the assessee submitted its income tax return it was asked by the Income tax Officer during the income tax assessment proceedings to produce before him its books of account and the other relevant papers.
The material portion of that notice reads as follows Notice under section 148 of the Income tax Act 1961.
I therefore propose to re assess the income for the said assessment year and I hereby require you to deliver to me within 30 days from the date of service of this notice a return in the prescribed form of your income The income assessable relevant to the assessment year 1960 61 of in respect of which you are assessable for the said assessment year.
The notice is being issued after obtaining the necessary satisfaction of the Commissioner of IncomeTax Bihar and Orissa Patna.
 The assessee challenged the validity of that notice as well as proceedings taken on the strength of that notice on various grounds.
In this case the notice was issued after four years but before eight years of the date of the original assessment.
2 The Income tax Officer shall before issuing any notice under this section record his reasons for doing so.
Hereinbelow we have sent out the report of the Income tax Officer as well as the order of the Commissioner Report in Connection with the starting of proceeding under Section 147 of the Income tax Act 1951.
Seth Bhagwan Singh Sricharan.
Sd section P Chaliha 30 4 66.
Income tax Officer A Ward Muzaffarpur.
 In his report the Income tax Officer does not set out any reason for coming to the conclusion that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
The material that he had before him for issuing notice under section 148 is not mentioned in the report.
All that he says is that from those communications it appears that these persons alleged creditors are name lenders and the transactions are bogus.
b of section 147.
GC Appeal allowed.
