The question that arises in this appeal by special leave is whether Shri Vithal Sukhamai Sansthan at Amalner East Khandesh was a private Devasthan or a public religious trust.
He also acquired certain properties and the said temple with the properties constituted Shri Vithal Rukhamai Sansthan of Amalner.
The application was made on May 29 1952 to the Assistant Charity Commissioner Poona under protest and without prejudice 520 to the claim made therein that the Sansthan was not a public trust.
The learned District Judge reversed the decision of the Charity Commissioner by his order of October 16 1959 and declared the Sansthan to be a private property and not a public trust.
The learned District Judge relied mostly on the documentary evidence for his conclusion in favour of the appellant.
It is not disputed by Mr Bal appearing on behalf of the appellant that the Sansthan in question is an endowment.
His only contention is that it is a private religious endowment and not a public one.
Mr Bal further contends that the High Court failed to consider all the material documents filed on behalf of the appellant except only exhibit 35 and that the conclusion was highly erroneous being contrary to the one that had been reached by the District Judge on appraisal of the entire documentary evidence.
The Sanad being an ancient Royal grant is a very important piece of evidence to show that although Sakharam Maharaj the founder of the temple had already been succeeded by Guru Govindbuwa and the latter by Balkrishnabuwa the land had been held in the year 1860 61 in the name of the Devasthan.
In the absence of anything to the contrary of a convincing nature a grant by the Government in favour of the temple describing the property to be in charge of a manager leads to an unerring inference that the property is a public religious endowment.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
The next document in sequence is a Varaspatra of February 28 1869 exhibit 35 executed by Guru Govind Balkrishna buwa in favour of Prahladbuwa.
That ownership is of your own.
Again in the gift deed exhibit 39 the donee is described as Shri Rukhmini Pandurang Sansthan Sansthan Amalner Sakharam Maharaj at present Vasudev Buwa Guru Bal 525 krishna Maharaj.
We cannot agree that the High Court was not right in giving due importance to the admission of the constituted attorney Ramkrishna Deshpande that they cannot prevent people from going to the temple as the temple is meant for the Darshan by the public.
Your bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
The Bhajans at Pandharpur performed by Maharaj are attended by the public.
