This rule was issued on a petition filed under article 32 of the Constitution by one Purshottam Govindji Halai a citizen of India calling upon the respondents to show cause why a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus should not be issued by this Court directing the Superintendent House of Correction Byculla being the second respondent herein to produce before this Court one Govindji Deoji Halai the father of the petitioner who is also a citizen of India for the purpose of being released forthwith.
The assessee not having paid up the assessed amount of tax the Income tax Officer on the 10th April 1951 issued to the  Additional Collector of Bombay the first respondent herein a recovery certificate under section 462 of the Income tax Act.
The sale proceeds not being sufficient to satisfy the assessed tax the Additional Collector on the 7th June 1955 issued a notice under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 requiring the assessee to appear before him in person on the 16th June 1955 and show cause why he the assessee should not be apprehended and confined to civil jail in satisfaction of the said certified demand.
The assessee did not appear in person on the appointed day but on the next day the 17th June 1955 an Advocate acting on behalf of the assessee wrote a letter to the Additional Collector purporting to show cause why the assessee should not be arrested and sent to the civil jail.
The contentions put forward on behalf of the assessee not being considered satisfactory the Additional Collector on the 30th June 1955 issued a warrant for the arrest of the assessee under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876.
The assessee was actually arrested on the 1st July 1955.
On the 8th July 1955 an application was made by the present petitioner to the Bombay High Court under article 226 complaining of the arrest of his father the assessee and praying for a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus for the production and release of the assessee.
In the view we have taken about the merits of the petition it is not necessary for us to consider the question of its maintainability after the dismissal of the petition under article 226 or to make any pronouncement on this occasion on the scope and ambit of article 32 of the Constitution in that situation.
We proceed to deal with the objections seriatim.
a Section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act which is impugned before us runs as follows 46.
In view of the decision of this Court in the State of Punjab vs Ajaib Singh  Another1 this objection has not been pressed before us and we need say no more about it.
In this case the assessee has been arrested and is being detained in jail in execution of a warrant of arrest issued under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of the demand certified under section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act.
As long as those sec tions stand no complaint can be made of infringement of article 21 for those two sections constitute a procedure established by law.
The contention is that section 462 which sanctions such discrimination is clearly violative of the equal protection clause of the Constitution and has therefore become void under article 13 1.
Each State in its wisdom has devised a machinery which it has considered appropriate and suitable for the recovery of its own public demand.
The same or similar considerations apply to both cases.
