R B Datar for the Appellant.
If a partition were to take place during Khandappa s lifetime between himself and his two sons the plaintiff would have got 14th share in the joint family properties the other three getting 14th share each.
That in short is the plaintiffs case.
He alleged that Khandappa had effected a partition of the suit properties between himself and his two sons in December 1952 and December 1954 and that by a family arrangement dated March 31 1955 he bad given directions for disposal of the share which was reserved by him for himself in the earlier partitions.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
Another Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji2 had already reconsidered and dissented from earlier Division Bench judgment in Shiramabai Bhimgonda1 In these two cases the judgment of the Bench was delivered by the same learned Judge Patel J.
Since the view of the High.
When a male Hindu dies after the commencement of this Act having at the time of his death an interest in a Mitakshara coparcenary property his interest in the property 1196366Bom.
Explanation 2.
There is thus no dispute that the normal rule provided for by section 6 does not apply that the proviso to that section is attracted and that the decision of the appeal must turn on the meaning to be given to Explanation 1 of section 6.
In the instant case the plaintiff s suit based as it is on the provisions of section 6 is essentially a claim to obtain a share in the interest which her husband had at the time of his death in the coparcenary property.
The son daughter and a widow are mentioned as heirs in class I of the Schedule and therefore by reason of the provisions of section 8a read with the 1st clause of section 9 they take simultaneously and to the exclusion of other heirs.
see Mulla s Hindu Law Fourteenth Edition page 403 para 315.
In other words the assumption having been made once for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased in the coparcenary property one cannot go back on that assumption and ascertain the share of the heirs without reference to it.
The assumption which the statute requires to be made that a partition had in fact taken place must permeate the entire process of ascertainment of the ultimate share of the heirs through all its stages.
