Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
P Parmeswara Rao and G N Rao for the Respondent.
This appeal has been filed under Section 2a of the .
The accused and P W 8 went away.
They found the deceased bleeding profusely from the left side of her chest.
When the Police officers went to the village they 366 found the accused tied to a pole.
They arrested him and found that he had injuries on his person.
The Medical Officer P W 12 who conducted the autopsy found on the dead body a stab wound over the left axila 6 cms.
nearly horizontal.
P W 13 the Medical officer who examined the accused found several abrasions and contusions on the person of the accused.
He felt giddy and was about to lose consciousness.
He commented on the failure of the Police to seize the mat or bedding on which the deceased was sleeping.
He referred to the evidence of me Doctor who stated that the injury found on the deceased could have been caused even if she was standing.
He therefore acquitted the accused.
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 pm was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P 15 the wound certificate given by PW 13 the Medical officer in respect of the injuries which he found on the person of the accused.
He urged that at the reasons given by the learned Sessions Judge had not been met by the High Court.
The discrepancies were in regard to which of them woke up first where was the lantern and which of the neighbours came first to the scene on hearing their cries.
The High Court was also right in holding that the medical evidence supported the prosecution version and not the defence version.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P W 1 and himself.
The injury must have been caused in the manner suggested by the prosecution that 368 is when the deceased was lying on her right side.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
vs State of UP  Anr1.
