Out of 665 employees at Bombay the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306.
They served a Charter of Demands in July 1974 on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the State Government made a reference of the dispute under section 101 d Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra for adjudication.
There was fierce competition also it was asserted from other similar organisations.
The appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
The particular character of the appellant that it was a service industry and not a manufacturing concern was taken into account and it was observed that unlike a manufacturing business there was little scope for diversification in the case of an engineering consultancy.
The Tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
II DriverAsstt.
Caretaker.
OptrRecep tionistAssist.
Record Keeper Veh.
Asstt Canteen Asstt.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No 23 but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure Rs 150  were omitted.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
sd K N Wani INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL.
The cost of living had gone on increasing from 1972 onwards and as the Tribunal has found the dearness allowance and house rent allowance made no appreciable impact in neutralising the increasing cost.
The Charter of Demands was presented by the Union in July 1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the State Government made the reference to the Industrial Tribunal in 1975.
The Tribunal has referred to various considerations which prevailed with it in giving retrospectivity to the revised pay scales.
In making the application of 22nd December 1978 the Union invoked the jurisdiction of the 175 Tribunal under rule 31 of the Industrial Disputes Bombay Rules 1957.
The terms of reference in the State Government s order required the Tribunal to revise the scales of pay and dearness allowance and there was no mention of giving any ad hoc increase in the basic pay of individual workman.
For the purpose of restructuring the pay scales the Tribunal ruled on the paying capacity of the appellant both with reference to the profits of the preceding year as well as the prospects of the future.
That the increase was pertinent to the general pay scales in the revised wage structure is patently clear from a comparison of the existing pay scales and the revised pay scales.
There was only one increase contemplated in the award in paragraph 23 of award and it is more than plain that the increase was the one incorporated in the revised pay scales pertaining to different categories.
It will be noted that the statement Exhibit C 51 was prepared on the basis of the employees  strength as in December 1971.
The original award was completed and signed by the Tribunal and it cannot be reopened now except for the limited purpose of Rule 31.
It was open to the Tribunal to adopt the position which it did.
The Union therefore prays the honourable Tribunal to clarify the position and correct the award accordingly.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No 23 but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure Rs 150  were omitted.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
The endorsement made on the application by the Advocate for the company does not indicate that the company had any objection to the award being corrected as sought by the employees union.
