ivil Appeal Nos.
These appeals by special leave involve the question of the legality of the demand for Property tax made by respondent 1 on the appellant Companies.
Section 69 by clauses c and d confers upon the Development Authority powers for the purpose of municipal administration and for the purpose of taxation.
The Ordinance was replaced by the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Sanshodhan Adhiniyam 1976 6 of 1976.
It says that the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax.
The procedure for imposition of taxes is contained in section 129 of the Municipalities Act and section 133 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
The learned Attorney General who appears on behalf of the appellants has raised four or five principal points any one of which if accepted will result in the success of these appeals.
the decision of the Privy Council could not be extended too far so as to cover every case in which the provisions of another statute are adopted by absorption see page 837.
As observed in Nathella Sampathu Chetty there is a distinction between a mere reference to or a citation of one statute in another and an incorporation which in effect means the bodily lifting of the provisions of one enactment and making them part of another so much so that the repeal of the former leaves the latter wholly untouched.
This contention is devoid of substance.
The obligation which the statute places upon it is to impose tax on lands where there are lands only and they can be taxed on buildings where buildings alone can be brought to tax and on both lands and buildings where lands are built upon and both can be brought to tax.
The third contention of the Attorney General flows from the provisions of article 2851 of the Constitution which says that the property of the Union shall save in so far as Parliament may by law otherwise provide be exempt from all taxes imposed by a State or by any authority within a State.
It was therefore a Government Company under section 617 of the .
We would however like to draw attention to the Explanation to section 147 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act which says that though the property tax has to be paid by the owner of the land or building as the case may be for the purposes of that section a tenant of land or building or both who holds the same under a lease for an agreed period with a convenant for its renewal thereafter shall be deemed to be the owner thereof.
Entry 23 of List II relates to Regulation of mines and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union.
vs Chanan Mal.
Since the Central Act was primarily concerned with the development and regulation of declared industries and not with the ownership of industrial undertakings it was held that the State legislature had the competence to enact the impugned law.
