1073 1100 1117 19 1229 95 142 1554 1746 2140 2155 2271 2396 2459.
1198 1217 1302 12 1314 15 1566 1641 1140 70 2360 95 1643 17252272 232921522332233924913486 89 2498 2521 2522 533 742611 2638 and 2531 of 1983.
LN Sinha Attorney General Anil B DivanB Parthasarthi and KR Chaudhary for the Respondents.
GN Rao for the State.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD C J.
By these notifications every Government servant whether ministerial or non ministerial but not belonging to the last Grade Service who had already attained the age of 55 years was to retire from service with effect from February 28 1983.
These writ petitions were filed by the Andhra Pradesh Government employees to challenge the aforesaid order and the notifications on the ground that they violate Articles 14 16 21 and 300A of the Constitution.
The petitioners aver that the Government had not even considered the enormous delay which 587 would be caused in the payment of pensionary benefits to employees A who were retired from service without any pre thought.
A counter affidavit was filed on behalf of the State of Andhra Pradesh by Shri R Parthasarathy Joint Secretary in the Finance Department of the State at the stage of admission of the writ petitions.
By the counter affidavit the Government of Andhra Pradesh denied that any of the provisions of the Constitution were violated by the impugned decision to reduce the age of retirement.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
Finance and Planning.
We are not concerned in these writ petitions with clauses 3 to 9 of the Ordinance which mostly regulate conditions of service.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Clause 103 provides that every workman belonging to the Last Grade Service or employed on a monthly rate of pay in any service notified as Inferior shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Workmen belonging to Ministerial Service or any service other than the Last Grade Service notified as Inferior have to retire on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which they attain the age of 55 589 years.
By clause 15 All Rules and Regulations made under the proviso to Article 309 or continued under Article 3 l 3 of the Constitution or made under any other law for the time being in force governing the recruitment and conditions of service of the Government employees continue to be in force in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance declares that every amendment made before or after the commencement of the Ordinance to the Fundamental Rules and the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules shall be and shall be always deemed to have applied to all Government employees whether appointed before or after the amendment.
Clause 18 of the Ordinance provides by sub clause i that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules shall be and shall be deemed always to have been omitted.
The age of retirement was previously governed by these two Rules.
Shri RK Garg who appears in a group of three Transferred Cases contends that the Ordinance is bad because it supersedes all industrial adjudications and overrules even settlements arrived at between the management and the employees.
Barring a few services in a few parts of the world as for example the American Supreme Court the terms and conditions of every public service provide for an age of retirement.
Indeed the proposition that there ought to be an age of retirement in public services is widely accepted as reasonable and rational.
The fact that the stipulation as to the age of retirement is a common feature of all of our public services establishes its necessity no less than its reasonableness Public interest demands that there ought to be an age of retirement in public services The point of the peak level of efficiency is bound to differ from individual to individual but the age of retirement cannot obviously differ from individual to individual for that reason.
A common scheme of general application governing superannuation has therefore to be evolved in the light of experience regarding performance levels of employees the need to provide employment opportunities to the younger sections of society and the need to open up promotional opportunities to employees at the lower levels early in their career.
We do not suggest that every question of policy is outside the scope Of judicial review or that necessarily there are no manageable standards for reviewing any and every question of policy.
If the age of retirement is fixed at an unreasonably low level so as to make it arbitrary and irrational the Court s interference would be called for though not for fixing the age of retirement but for mandating a closer consideration of the matter.
That is an exercise which the administrator and the legislature have to undertake.
As stated in The Supreme Court And The Judicial Function 2 Judicial self restraint is itself one of the factors to be added to the balancing process carrying more or less weight as the circumstances seem to require.
We must therefore approach the problem before us with a view to determining whether the age of retirement has been reduced from 58 to 55 unreasonably or arbitrarily.
On the other hand the Ordinance shall have to be held valid if the fundamental premise upon which it proceeds has been accepted as fair and reasonable in comparable situations if its provisions bear nexus with public interest and if it does not offend against the constitutional limitations either on legis l EP Rovappa.
State of Tamil Nadu  2 Edited by Philips B Kurland Oxford and IBH Publisning Co Page 13.
592 lative competence or on the legislative power to pass laws which bear on fundamental rights.
Neither the social nor the economic consequences of so grave a decision could have been or were in fact considered by the Government c The reason given by the Government that promotional opportunities had deteriorated as a result of the increase in the retirement age from 55 to 58 is fanciful and non existent.
Now when their turn for promotion has come at about the age of 55 they have been superannuated d The theory that reduction in the age of retirement provides employment opportunities to educated youths is fallacious.
Even otherwise not more than one per cent of the unemployed educated youths are likely to get employment as a result of the reduction in the age of retirement from 58 to 55.
That is because not more than 18000 vacancies arose on account of the reduction in the age of retirement.
In this connection the first ground of challenge to the reduction of the age of retirement is that the One man Pay Revision Commission appointed by the Government of Andhra Pradesh had recommended that the age of retirement should be increased from 55 to 58 that the said recommendation was accepted by the State Government and consequently the age of retirement was raised to 58 with effect from October 29 l 979.
It is contended that the reversal of that well considered decision within a short span of less than three and a half years is patently unscientific and arbitrary 594 especially since no fresh investigation was undertaken to examine the validity of the recommendation made by the One man Pay Commission.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the of the Commission cover the review of the existing retirement benefits  the reference would naturally include the age of retirement.
 This was an erroneous and unwarranted reading of the terms of reference.
A review of retirement benefits would undoubtedly cover the examination of the rules or schemes relating to pension provident fund gratuity encasement of leave etc but it cannot include the power to examine the question as regards the fixation of the age of retirement.
The reasonableness of a decision in any jurisdiction does not depend upon the time which it takes.
Conversely decisions which are taken promptly cannot be assumed to be bad because they are taken promptly.
Every decision has to examined on its own merits in order to determine whether it is arbitrary or unreasonable.
Besides we have to consider the validity of a law regulating the age of retirement.
It is untenable to contend that a law is bad because it is passed immediately on the assumption of office by a new Government.
The aid and assistance of a well trained bureaucracy which notoriously plays an important part not only in the implementation of policies but in their making was also available to the Government.
Therefore the speed with which the decision was taken cannot without more invalidate it on the ground of arbitrariness.
Both can fall within the constraints of the Constitution and neither the one nor the other can be considered to be arbitrary or unreasonable.
The rule was accordingly changed so as to make retirement at 55 the normal practice and retention in service beyond that age the exception.
It was observed that Government service ages employees quicker and that the question was one of balancing limited use to Government of such men against perhaps their better usefulness to the nation at large.
It was recognized that its actual effect would A be small but importance was attached to its probable impact on public opinion.
After talking into account all the relevant considerations including the fact that most Government servants themselves do not wish to continue in service until they are worn out and have one foot in the grave the Commission summed up its findings by saying that there was much in favour of and very little against raising the age of superannuation.
Consequently the resultant vacancies at the direct recruitment level which would have arisen in the chain of appointments that would follow each retirement were also blocked for 3 years continuously thereby denying the promotion opportunities to inservice personnel and employment opportunities for the unemployed causing a great deal of frustration all round.
Government were thus able to create promotional avenues to serving employees at various levels and create opportunities for appointment against about 18000 posts in Government Panchayat Raj and aided educational institutions alone not to speak of the opportunities that were created in the various Corporations etc owned or controlled by Government.
 604 The White Paper explains that in order to ensure that the employees who had retired by the end of February 1983 should get their pensionary benefits without delay the Government had constituted a special Pension cell in the Finance Department by a notification dated February 16 1983.
There are precedents within our country itself for fixing the retirements age at 55 or for reducing it from 58 to 55.
Either the one or the other of these two stages is regarded generally as acceptable depending upon the employment policy of the Government of the day.
But such is not the case here.
Care must also be taken to ensure that the statistics are not perverted to serve a malevolent purpose 605 Shri VM Tarkunde who appears for some of the petitioners A limited his argument to the contention that arbitrary fixation of retirement age amounts to removal from service and is therefore violative of Article 311 2 of the Constitution This argument has to be rejected because of our conclusion that the reduction of the age of retirement from 58 to 55 in the instant case is not hit by Article 14 or Article 16 since it is not arbitrary or unreasonable in the circumstances of the case.
It was held by this Court that the termination of service of an employee on account of his reaching the age of superannuation does not amount to his removal from service within the meaning of Article 311 2.
Learned counsel contends that this decision is of doubtful authority since the Court based its opinion on the majority judgment in Moti Ram Deka vs yGeneral Manager North Frontier Railway7 in which the Court was not called upon to consider and did not consider the validity of a rule of superannuation.
3  4  5 1958 SCR1052.
See page 696 of the Report.
The 607 power to issue an ordinance is not an executive power but is the power of the executive to legislate.
The heading of that Chapter is  Legislative Power of the Governor.
2 119821 SCR 947 at 964 967.
These Transferred Cases will be delinked from the other Writ Petitions and will be listed for hearing later so that they can be dealt with upon their own facts.
The argument of mala fides advanced by Shri AT Sampat and adopted in passing by some of the other counsel is without any basis.
The burden to establish maa fides is a heavy burden to discharge.
Even assuming that the executive in a given case has an ulterior motive in moving a legislation that motive cannot render the passing of the law mala fide.
This kind of transferred malice  is unknown in the field of legislation.
1   582 585.
