The prosecution case is this.
On 7 12 1950 about 3 o clock in the afternoon Ramchander Shelke the deceased went to his field known as Bhavara with his wife s sister Rasika Bai PW1 and his servant Subhana Rao PW7.
They also say they witnessed the assault and name all five accused.
Rasika Bai s version is that on seeing the assault she called out to the accused not to hit but they  raised their axes and sticks and threatened her and then ran away.
Opposite the column headed Name and address of the complainant or informant is entered Tukaram so Panda Sheolka.
The Sub Inspector who wrote out the first information report on the basis of this report entered the following in it I am to submit that today a report dated 7 12 1950 from the Police Patel Neemgaon village has been received stating that 1 Tukaram so Panda Sheolka ro Neemgaon village came and stated that on 7 12 1950 Ramchander so Govind Reddy was murdered etc.
That leaves the matter equivocal but in view of what the Police Patel tells us we think that he did mean to convey that 1089 Tukaram was the complainant probably because he did not want to enter a woman s name and so picked on the nearest male relative.
But what the learned counsel for the appellants says is that he saw Narsabai on the evening of the murder and as she did not give him any names it is evident that no one knew who the assailants were and that therefore the accusation made against the accused was a subsequent concoction and that it was for that reason that they waited till the next morning before reporting the matter to the police.
The absence of the names in the report is therefore not of much consequence in this case especially as the names were disclosed in full at the time of the inquest.
We think Rasika and Subhana are telling the truth when they say that these two accused were also there but we think that because of that they think they must have joined in the attack and so have added that detail to their story.
We uphold his conviction under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
