Civil Appeal Nos3677 3680 of 1986 Etc.
From the Judgment and Order dated 1031986 of the Karnataka High Court in WP Nos.
4053 to 4056 of 1985.
These appeals raise common questions of law and may therefore be disposed of by a common judgment.
By the time the proviso came into force 36 permits had been granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority and 14 remained to be granted.
By an order dated February 1 1984 the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
The Tribunal by its order dated February 28 1985 set aside the grant of the two permits in favour of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation set aside the grant of three out of eleven permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and instead granted three permits to private operators and increased the number of permits granted to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation from one to three.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
Section 42 prescribes permits for the use of a transport vehicle in any public place.
 The proviso to section 471 prescribes that other things being equal a registered cooperative society and a person possessing a licence for driving transport vehicles shall be given preference over individual owners in granting stage carriage permits.
Section 471 A enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.
Section 471 C enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
Section 471 H prescribes that notwithstanding anything contained in the section an application for stage carriage permit from a State Transport undertaking for operating in any inter State route shall be given preference overall other applications provided of course the authority is satisfied that the State Transport Undertaking would be able to operate in the inter State route without detriment to its responsibility for providing efficient and adequate road transport services in any notified area or notified route.
That is how section 471 H was interpreted in Sher Singh s case.
Since the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court have failed to consider the merits of the claims of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation and the private operators who did not get a certificate of approval from the Central Government because of the rule of preference contained in proviso to section 637 the proper course for us is to set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and to direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to re hear the appeals and dispose them of in accordance with law after considering the claims of the eligible applicants in the manner indicated in Sher Singh s case and now.
Though the permits to be granted are for tourist vehicles the preference is confined to operators of tourist cars and travel agents.
637 of the .
