Appeal No 1713NT of 1973.
Rs25000 Hari Prakash Gupta .
It appears further that copies of this letter were sent to one Om Prakash Gupta and Ved Prakash Gupta.
It must be mentioned however that the company ie Messrs Tika Ram and Sons.
The respective donees were stated to have later on withdrawn amounts from the amounts so transferred to their accounts.
The next contention was regarding the inclusion of net wealth a sum of Rs6756012 standing to the credit of the assessee in the books of Ms Pearls  Beads.
The assessee claimed to have gifted the said amounts by transfer entries in the books of Ms Pearls  Beads on 30th March 1957.
There was no evidence it appears that the said sum was available with the said firm of Ms Pearls  Beads.
Aggrieved by the said decision the revenue has come up in appeal.
In case of entries in the books of ac count by credit and debit the sums should be available on the date of gift in the account of the firm whose accounts are said to be credited or debited.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
It is possible in certain circumstances for a donor to make a valid gift by instructing a firm or a company or a HUF in which the donor has an account to give effect to the gift by debiting his account and crediting the account in the name of the donee.
But in such cases 127 merely books entries would not suffice.
The Calcutta High Court had occasion to discuss this aspect in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax West Bengal 111 vs Ashok Glass Works There it was held on facts that the entries had been made contemporane ously showed that the transaction was genuine and there was no suggestion that the interests which were credited in the accounts of the minor donees by the firm which carried on money lending business also were fictitious.
The Tribunal therefore it was found tightly held that the gifts were valid and the interest paid in respect of the accounts standing in the name of the donees was allowable as a deduc tion in the hands of the assessee firm.
See also the cases of Commissioner of Income Tax Bombay City H vs Popatlal Mulji and also in the case of Addl.
Father had complete control and dominion over that amount.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax Burma held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
Balance of the firm was only Rs 15.
In Commissioner of Wealth Tax vs Gulab Rai Govind Pra sad there was an alleged gift of Rs2 lakhs to minor son by book entries.
On 20th November 1956 the assessee purported to transfer Rs50000 from his account to the account of his son.
