The question involved in these appeals by special leave which are filed against the judgment dated August 17 1985 of the High Court of Allahabad in Civil Miscellaneous Writ No 6849 of 1984 relates to the constitu tional validity of regulation 192 of the Life Insurance Corporation of India Staff Regulations 1960 hereinafter referred to as the Staff Regulations 1960  as amended on 211.
Under the Act the expression appointed day  is de fined as the date on which the Corporation is established.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
When the Corporation thus came into existence it had no employees of its own to carry on the vast business of the large number of insurers which had been taken over by it.
 Sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act provided that every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in the Corpora tion and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business immediately before the appointed day ie September 1 1956 would on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corpora tion and would hold his office therein by the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and condi tions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if the Act had not been passed and would continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation was terminated and until his remunera tion terms and conditions were duly altered by the Corpora tion.
The proviso to that sub section provided that nothing contained in sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act would apply to any such employee who had by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to September 1 1956 intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
The conditions governing the retirement of those offi cials with which we are concerned in these appeals were also diverse and different.
It therefore became necessary to bring about uniformity in the conditions of service of the transferred employees.
Doubts arose as regards the meaning of sub section 2 of section of the Act.
To remove the above doubt by Act 17 of 1957 section 49 of the Act was amended by introducing clause bb in sub section 2 of section 49 of the Act which expressly conferred power on the Corporation to make regulations with the previous approval of the Central Government as regards the terms and condi tions of service of persons who have become employees of the Corporation under sub section 1 of section 11 .
The above clause was introduced into the Act with retrospective effect along with the new sub 194 section 2 of section 11 of the Act.
The above regulation thus made a distinction between an employee who entered the service of the Corporation after it was estab lished ie after 1st September 1956 and the transferred employees insofar as the age of retirement was concerned.
Clause 13 of the above Order which related to the age of superannuation read as follows 13.
Clause 6 of that order originally read as follows 6.
Para 9 of the office note circulated amongst the members of that committee gave a true picture of the conditions prevailing then.
There is no reason why there should be distinc tion between officers and staff in this matter as both of them had similar privileges with regard to retirement in the past.
All the employees have often represented that the age of retirement should be raised to 60.
The relevant part of the settlement arrived at between the parties to the said industrial dispute as regards the age of retirement of class III and class IV emp 199 loyees who entered the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 read as follows 1.
Hence he was not retired on the 30th June 1984 as originally notified and allowed to continue in service.
In other words the contention of the 1st Respondent before the High Court was that since he had the fight to continue in service if he had remained in Class III only till he attained the age of 60 years as a Class III employee by virtue of the settlement and the amendment of the regula tion 19 in the year 1965 the age of retirement in his case could not be reduced to 58 years only because he had been promoted to a Class I post.
The Central Government and the Corporation felt that 60 years of age could be a proper age of retirement in the circumstances in respect of the transferred employees and that was the reason why by regulation 19 and the standardisation order issued earlier in the case of certain classes of transferred em ployees under section 112 of the Act the retirement age was fixed at 60 years and this was done with a view to retaining the services of the experienced employees of the erstwhile insurers.
Thus the statutory transfer of service from former employers and standardization of scales of remuneration and other conditions of employment had to be and were taken care of by section 11 of the Life Insur ance Corporation Act 1956 for short the LIC Act.
They are all provisions relating to the process of transfer.
The teachers in Government employment were governed by the Punjab Educational Service Class III School Cadre Rules 1955.
The petitioners in the above case ie Ram Lal Wadhwa  Anr.
or after April 1 1966 and the remaining twenty per cent by train examiners from grade D .
This Court held that when once the direct recruits and promoters were absorbed in one cadre they formed one class and they could not be distinguished again for the purpose of further promotion to the higher grade C  The Court further ob served that before the impugned notification was issued there was only one rule of promotion applicable to both direct recruits and promoters but by the impugned notifica tion discriminatory treatment was made in favour of the apprentice train examiners who had already been absorbed in grade D .
The two decisions referred to above have been rendered by two different Division Benches.
In Govindarajulu vs The Management of Union Bank of India  Ors Writ Petition No 5486 of 1980 the High Court of Madras rejected the said claim by its judgment dated 2111.
So far as the age of retirement is concerned as it is already shown they are being treated differently right from the date on which the Corporation was estab lished.
We are not concerned in this case with the question whether the age of retirement of employees who have joined the service of the Corporation after 1st September 1956 should be raised to 60 years.
The appeals are according ly allowed.
