Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
The petitioner was born on 1021922 and secured his first appointment as a Section Officer under the named employer on 22101947.
He was pro moted as officiating Assistant Engineer in class II service with effect from  255.
1954 and came to be confirmed as Section Officer by an order dated 8101955.
On 371961 he was further promoted as officiating Executive Engineer in Class I service but on 491965 he was reverted to the post of Assistant Engineer in officiating position and was con tinuing in that post when he was compulsorily retired.
The vires of Rule 56j of the Fundamental Rules as also the power to compulsorily retire a public servant have been upheld by this Court and do not require to be re examined.
 The impugned notice ran thus No 3245266 EC.
Sd VR .
 It is clear from it that the petitioner attained the age of 50 years on 1021972 and therefore on the date of the order he had completed the age of 54 years.
Admittedly he was holding a class II post when the impugned order was served on him.
1954 and contin ued to hold that post when the order of compulsory retire ment was passed.
It has been argued before us that as the petitioner was holding an officiating appointment in Class 117 he could not have been compulsorily retired under sub clause i.
 Strong reliance was placed by counsel for the petitioner on the reasons extracted above.
But the correct ness thereof is disputed by learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India and that is why this writ petition was directed to be heard by a larger Bench.
A person can be in Class I or Class II service or post even when he hold a post of either class substantively or temporarily or on officiating basis.
The purpose of Fundamental Rules 56j is to confer power on the appropriate authority to compulsorily retire Government servant in the public interest and the classification of Government servants into two categories covered by sub clauses i and ii has a purpose behind it.
Such judgments have become final and Union of India has given effect to the decisions of the Delhi High Court.
There will be no order for costs.
WRIT PETITION NOS.
There will be no order for costs.
