MKD Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP Civil N o 6998 of 1988.
Short factual background is this Parmanand Respondent in the appeal was a Time Keeper in Beas Sutlej Link Project Sundernagar.
He made this entry with ulterior motive to withdraw the pay of Ashok Kumar for the month of May 1969 even though Ash ok Kumar was not working in that Division.
The Personnel Officer of the 23 BSL Project was appointed as Inquiry Officer.
The report of e n quiry was forwarded to the competent authority who aft er giving an opportunity of being heard dismissed the respon d ent from service.
Consequentl y the said writ petition stood transferred to the Tribunal by operation of section 29 of that Act.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
 It was also observed that there was no denial of a reasonable opportunity for the respondent to set up prop er defence.
Before the Trib u nal was constituted the Courts were exercising judici al review of administrative decisions in public services.
It provides power to Parliament to enact law for establishme nt of Administrative Tribunals for adjudication of disput es with regard to service matters.
Jurisdiction powers and authority of t he Central Administrative Tribunal 27 1 Save as otherwise expressly provided in th is Act the Central Administrative Tribunal shall exercise on and from the appointed day all the jurisdiction powers a nd authority exercisable immediately before that day by a ll courts except Supreme Court in relation to a recruitment and matters concerning recrui t ment to any All India Service or to any civil service of the Union or a civil post under the Union or to a po st connected with defence or in the defence services being in either case a post filled by a civilian b all service matters concerning Similar are the powers and authority of the State Ser v ice Tribunal under sec.
Section 28 excludes the jurisdicti on of courts except the Supreme Court or any Industrial Trib u nal Labour Court concerning service matters.
Likewise suits and other proceedings pending befo re a Court or other authority relating to service matters al so stand transferred to the Tribunal for determination.
The High Court observed That the findings in respect of charges la and le 29 should be set aside as being opposed to the rules of natur al justice but the findings in respect of charges lc a nd ld and charge 2 need not be disturbed.
