It is at this stage that the quantity of fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufactured according to the appel lant is entered in the RG 1 Register maintained for goods manufactured by the appellant.
The appellant had filed its price lists in respect of the same.
Appeals were filed by the assessee.
Collector.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd  981 Shri Salve has however contended that so far as this Court is concerned this question is concluded by the deci sion of this Court in Collector of Central Excise vs Indian Oxygen Ltd Learned Attorney General however contended that this decision did not deal with the present controversy.
There is no equity about a tax it was submitted.
The Asstt.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression packing as the wrapper container bobbin pirn spool reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped contained or wound.
To hold otherwise it was contended would make the provision of the measure of the levy unworka ble inasmuch as in every case the measure would have to differ in the light of the contentions as may be raised by the assessees depending upon the business arrangement of each assessee.
The respondent supplied these gases in cylinders at their factory gate.
Furthermore no cost was in fact incurred by the assessee.
Here also obviously the reference is not generally to the taxes payable on such goods by either the assessee or the buyer but is obviously to the taxes payable by the assessee.
It has to be borne in mind that the measure of excise duty is price and not value.
In those cases the corrugated fibreboard containers according to Pathak J were not necessary for selling the cigarettes in the wholesale market.
Where the manufacturer supplies his own container or drum but does not charge the customer therefore then the price of the goods will also include the cost of the con tainer.
