Counsel state that the facts in all these appeals are identical and that the only facts neces sary or atleast on record before us on the basis of which the issue us is to be decided are these Each of the appellants petitioners hereinafter referred to compendi ously as assessees  is a registered dealer in the State of Haryana.
He then sold the manufactured goods to dealers who in turn exported those goods out of India.
The writ petitions have been filed directly in this Court in view of a learned single Judge of the High Court having decided the issue against the assessees as early as 2511.
 b Act 44 of 1976 added at the end of the above definition the following words wef.
 b Act 13 of 1989 amended the Explanation by inserting in it after the words section 9 the words or section 24.
p of section 2.
1971 section 6 Incidence of taxation 1 Every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the coming into force of the provisions of this section exceeded the taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of the provi sions of this section.
 b Act 44 of 1976 made two amendments to this sub section.
 These amendments were effective from 141976.
The State Government had issued a notification dated 19774 even before the 1976 amendment clarifying the position with an answer to the question in the affirmative but this notification as well as the interpretation favoured by it were quashed by a decision of the High Court reported as Goodyear India Ltd vs State 1982 53 STC 163.
However it added a new sub section 3 with retrospective effect from 275.
The provisoes to section 27aiv in particular make a clear contrast between sales falling under sub section 3 and those failing under sub section 1 of section 5 of the CST Act.
The court held that the movement of goods outside India was occasioned by the contract between the STC and the foreign buyer and not by that between the appellant and the STC.
He submitted that even if the claim were to be accepted the assessees would be in no better position.
High Court and that the appeals as well as writ petitions before us deserve to be dismissed.
However this amendment which has been made both in section 9 and in section 24 by Act 1 of 1988 has not been given any retrospective effect.
There is no dispute that the assessees have transferred the manufactured goods by way of sale and that these goods have been despatched to various ports of India.
