The Judgment of the Court was delivered by YOGESHWAR DAYALJ.
The first writ petition was filed by the father Raghubir Singh whereas the second writ petition was filed by his minor son Surendrapal Singh through his next friend Shri Jagjit Singh maternal grand father of the minor.
The Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh by his order dated 10th August 1972 determined the ceiling area but an appeal by Raghubir Singh the Revenue Appellate Authority set aside the order of the sub Divisional Officer on March 6 1973 and remanded the case.
The matter was taken to the Board of Revenue for Rajasthan by a revision application and the Board by its order dated 14th April 1975 directed that the ceiling area for Raghubir Singh may be determined according to the old law ie Act of 1955 and not according to the new law ie Rajasthan Imposition of Ceiling on Agricultural Holding Act 1973 hereinafter referred to as the Act of 1973.
In pursuance of the direction of the Board the Sub Divisional Officer Hanumangarh by his order dated 5th May 1976 held that Surendrapal Singh appellant herein aged 12 years was a minor son of Raghubir Singh and used to 725 study in Punjab and further held that the land in possession of Raghubir Singh was ancestral.
Aggrieved by the order of the Sub Divisional Officer Raghubir Singh filed appeal before the Revenue Appellate Authority Bikaner who by his order dated 6th September 1976 dismissed the same and upheld the order of the Sub Divisional Officer.
He sought permission to adduce additional evidence in support of his contention.
The application for adducing additional evidence was disallowed.
However the member of the Board came to the conclusion that Surendrapal Singh appellant here in was born to Raghubir Singh on 14th March 1963 and was only 13 years of age when the ceiling proceedings were finalized by the Sub Divisional Officer on 5th May 1976.
The Board went on to hold that there is no provision for separate units in Chapter III B of the Act of 1955.
The general superintendence and control over all revenue courts shall be vested in an all such Courts shall be subordinate to the Board and subject to such superintendence control and subordination a x x x omitted b all Additional Collectors Sub.
It is clear from the language of Section 221 of the Act of 1955 that the Board of Revenue has general powers of superintendence and control over all revenue courts.
It is both administrative as well as judicial powers.
If the subordinate court disregards any specific provision of law and does something illegal it is open to the Board of Revenue to interfere and set the matter right.
At the same time the power is there and it may be exercised sparingly in extraordinary case where interest of justice requires that the Board should exercise the power.
 These words have been consistently interpreted to mean that the High Court had power in appropriate cases to interfere with the judicial orders of the courts.
Section 221 of the Act of 1955 is similar to Section 107 of the Government of India Act 1915 and there is no section like sub section 2 of Section 224 of the Government of India Act of 1935 in the Act of 1955.
