The facts are stated in the judgment.
February 1.
The Judgment of the Court was deliv ered by CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J.
The facts out of which this Crimi nal Appeal has arisen are not long.
It is said that the appellant wanted to go to the United Kingdom for treatment of his failing eye sight and he got into touch with the complainant Mulchand Kodumal Bhatia who is the second respondent in this appeal through one Sayed for the purpose of making necessary ar rangements about the flat occupied by him in view of his intended departure.
He however got into touch with the police on 1 12 1948 and in conjunction with the latter a trap was laid for the appellant.
The complainant and a Sub Inspec tor posing as the complainant s brother went to the appel lant on 4 12 1948 and paid him the two sums of money and the keys of the flat and the motor garage were handed over to the complainant.
As the appellant and his wife were leaving the flat the man who masqueraded as the complain ant s brother threw off his disguise and disclosed his identity.
From the complainant were recovered the bunch of keys and the documents that were handed over to him by the appellant namely the letter handing vacant possession Exhibit D.
His wife who was the second accused in the case was charged with aiding and abetting her husband in the commission of the two offences.
421 The defence of the appellant was that he was in search of a partner to carry on his business during his intended absence who was also to act as caretaker of his flat anal that it was in this connection and with this object in view that he entered into negotiations with the complain ant.
The Presidency Magistrate who tried the case disbe lieved the defence on the facts holding that what was received by the accused was by way of pugree.
He asked for a certificate under article 1341c of the Constitution but this was rejected on 10 4 1950.
 It was urged that the offence arises only on receipt of any sum or any consideration as a condition of the relin quishment by a tenant of his tenancy and that in the present case there was no such relinquishment.
Exhibit D which is the most material document under which the appellant handed over vacant possession of the flat to the complainant constitutes or evidences an assignment of the tenancy and not a relinquishment.
It is the landlord s consent to the transfer of a lease by sub lease or otherwise on receipt of consideration that has been made an offence.
In fact a surrender or relinquishment terminates the lessee s rights and lets in the lessor.
The section in question it should be further noted does not speak of relinquishment or giving up of possessionin general terms.
The words are the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises.
Agent for respondent No 1 PA Mehta.
