A V Viswanatha Sastri V Vedantachari and K Sundararajan for the appellant.
August 14.
These appeals have been filed with certificates granted by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh .
The circumstances under which the three writ petitions came to be filed by the appellant may now be narrated.
It is alleged that on January 10 1942 an agreement was entered into between the Rajah of Venkatagiri and one Sri Balumuri Nageswara Rao whereby the Rajah agreed to give annual leases in respect of certain slate quarries within his estate for five years in succession commencing from February 1942 if the Rajah was satisfied with the work carried on by the lessee during the preceding year.
On the expiry of the fifth year however the Rajah granted another lease to the said Balumuri Nageswara Rao for a short period commencing from February 1 1947 and ending on November 30 1947.
On September 7 1949 the Venkatagiri estate was notified under section 3 of the Madras Estate Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari Act 1948 Madras Act XXVI of 1948 hereinafter referred to as the abolition Act.
On the same date the appellant applied to the Collector for confirmation of the lease granted by the Rajah to him.
Nothing appears to have happened until February 12 1952 when a notice was issued from the office of the Board of Revenue Andhra calling upon the appellant to show cause within two months from the date of receipt of.
Thereupon the Board of Revenue passed an order on December 27 1955 declaring that the lease to the appellant had been granted subsequent to July 1 1945 and that as the lease was for a period exceeding one year it was not enforceable against the Government according to the second proviso to section 20 1 of the Abolition Act.
In the meantime on September 21 1955 the appellant had applied to the Board of Revenue Andhra for renewal of the lease under r 47 of the Mineral Concession Rules 1949.
2 The person whose right has been terminated by the Government under the foregoing proviso shall be entitled to compensation from the Government which shall be determined by the Board of 557 Revenue in such manner as may be prescribed having regard to the value of the right and the unexpired portion of the period for which the right was created.
