Civil Appeal No 50 of 1961.
Appeal by special leave from the Award dated March 10 1959 of the Industrial Tribunal.
Kozhikode in ID No 89 of 1958.
A V Viswanatha Sastri and T V R Tatachari for the appellant Janardan Sharma for the resondents.
January 29.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by WANCHOOJ.
This is an appeal by special leave in an industrial matter.
The appellant in a saw mill carrying on business in Kozihkode in 824 the State of Kerala.
One Sankaran was in the employ of the appellant as a crosscutter.
It is said that on June 21 1958 Sankaran came drunk to they mill and abused the Engineer the Secretary and others and threatened them with physical violence.
He was caught hold of by other workmen and taken outside.
It is said that he came again a short time later at 4 30 pm and abused the same persons again.
Thereupon the appellant served a charge sheet on Sankaran on June 24 1958 acting out the above facts and asked him to show cause why his services should not be terminated on account of his grave indiscipline and misconduct.
On June 25 1958 Sankaran was informed that in view of his denial a departmental inquiry would be held and he was also placed under suspension pending inquiry.
As no inquiry was held till July 2 1958 Sankaran again wrote to the appellant to hold the inquiry as early as possible.
On July 8 1958 the appellant terminated the services of Sankaran under r 18 a of the Standing Orders without holding any departmental inquiry and the order was communicated to Sankaran the same day.
In that order the appellant informed Sankaran that the proposed inquiry if conducted would lead to further friction and deterioration in the rank and file of the employees in general and also that maintenance of discipline in the undertaking would be prejudiced if he was retained in the service of the appellant and therefore it considered that no inquiry should be held.
A dispute was then raised by the union which was referred to the industrial tribunal for adjudication by the Government of Kerala in October 1958.
or more as daily wages otherwise than under rule 21 he shall be given 14 days notice or be paid 12 days wages.
 It may be mentioned that r 21 deals with case of misconduct and provides for dismissal or suspension for misconduct and in such a case the workman so suspended is not entitled to any wages during the period of suspension.
The claim thus put forward on behalf of the appellant is that it is entitled under r 18a of the Standing orders which is a term of contract between the appellant and its employees to dispense with the service of any employee at any time by just giving 14 days notice or paying 12 days wages.
