iminal Appeals Nos.
160 to 162 of 1960.
Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 20 1960 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Government Appeals Nos.
2011 to 2013 of 1958.
B C Misra and P K Chakravarti for the appellant.
G C Mathur and C P Lal for the respondent.
September 27.
The judgment of the Court was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J.
These three appeals arise out of three separate trials before the Additional Sessions judge Bulandshahr but were argued together as they arise identical questions.
In all these trials the appellant who was a postman attached to the Bulandshahr post office was tried for offences under section 52 of the Indian Post Office Act 1898 VI of 1898 and in two of  them also for offences under sections 467 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code.
Briefly stated the allegations against the appellant were that he either stole or secreted five registered letters and that he fabricated three receipts showing that the registered letters were received by the addressees.
The learned Additional Sessions judge acquitted the appellant of all these offences.
The State then preferred an appeal against his acquittal in these three cases to the High Court of Allahabad but restricted the appeal to the acquittal of the appellant in respect of offences under 410 section 52 of the Indian Post Office Act 1898 hereafter referred to as the Act.
The High Court held that the appellant had secreted the five registered letters in question and on this finding set aside his acquittal and convicted him in each of the three appeals for offences under section 52 of the Act and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year in each case.
The appellant has come up to this Court by special leave.
Briefly stated the prosecution case is that when the house in which the appellant lives along with his father Diwan Singh a retired Police Head Constable was searched by the CID Inspector SN Singh along with Masood Murtaza Sub Inspector of Police Bulandshahr on May 12 1956 in connection with a case against Messrs Greenwood Publicity they accidentally discovered a large number of letters and postcards and also the five registered letters in question.
At the time of the search the appellant who happens to be a trade union official was not in Bulandshahr but was away on leave at Delhi in connection with a postal conference.
These articles were found in an almirah the key of which was produced by the appellant s father.
A number of other articles were also seized at that time but we are not concerned with them as they have no connection with the charges against the appellant.
Further according to him neither the house nor the almirah from which the articles are said to have been 411 seized was in his exclusive possession.
5 That the High Court has not found that there were compelling reasons for setting aside the appellant s acquittal .
6 The sentences in the three cases having been ordered to run consecutively the total sentence is excessive.
We will deal with the last four points first.
It may be that where the provisions of  sections 103 and 165 Code of Criminal Procedure are 412 contravened the search could be resisted by the person whose premises are sought to be searched.
But beyond these two consequences no further consequence ensues.
The mere fact of possession according to learned counsel does not suffice to show that the letters were secreted by the appellant.
according to Mr Misra the appellant cannot be said to have secreted the letter just because it was found in the almirah which is said to have been in his exclusive possession.
We cannot therefore accept the first part of this contention of Mr Misra.
The next and in our opinion the most important question to be considered is whether the prosecution has established that the five registered letters in question were recovered from the possession of the appellant.
As already stated all that the prosecution has been able to prove is this case is that these letters were found in an almirah of the house in which the appellant lives jointly with his father and of which the key was furnished by the father.
 Before the High Court could take into consideration the circumstance that as between himself and his father the appellant had a better opportunity to 417 get at postal articles it had to find affirmatively that the almirah was in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
We may mention that Mr Mathur who appears for the State does not even suggest that the articles were stolen by the appellant.
Therefore the contention that he had an opportunity to get at the articles loses all significance and can possibly have no bearing on the question as to the nature of possession attributable to the appellant.
In the circumstances we must hold that the prosecution has failed to prove that these letters were in the exclusive possession of the appellant.
