Appeals Nos 1008 and 1009 of 1965.
C K Daphtary Attorney General section V Gupte Solicitor General Niren De Addl.
Solicitor General K B Mehta V Sagar H L Anand and B C Das Gupta for the appellants.
M K Ramamurthi for the respondents.
It is unnecessary to set out the facts of the two appeals at this stage.
It is sufficient to say that the respondents made applications under section 33 C2 of the Industrial Disputes Act No 14 of 1947 praying for determination and computation of the benefit to which they were entitled under the Desai award as they were not satisfied with the fixation of their pay by the appellant bank under para 5356.
The Desai award dealt with the method of adjustment in the scales of pay fixed by it from para 5329 onwards.
It divided the employees of the banks with which it was concerned in two groups.
The second group 900 consisted of workmen who on January 1 1962 were employed in banks which were not governed by the provisions of the Sastry award as modified and were not thus drawing basic pay on the footing of scales of pay provided by that award.
In the first case the Desai award provided that the workmen would be fitted in the new scales of pay from January 1 1962 on stage to stage adjustment basis ie workmen who were drawing basic pay at a particular stage in the time scale of the Sastry award as modified would draw basic pay at the same stage in the new scale applicable to them under the Desai award.
Examples of how this would be done were given in para.
5348 of the Desai award.
5348.
Here again the workmen were divided into two groups namely those who entered service before January 1 1959 and those who entered service on or after January 1 1959.
In the present appeals we are concerned with workmen who entered service before January 1 1959 and the fitment of these workmen was dealt with in para.
5356 of the Desai award and it is this paragraph which calls for interpretation in the present appeals.
We may at this stage mention that a similar question of fit ment was considered by the Sastry award in para.
This paragraph was considered by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in appeal from the Sastry award and certain modifications were made thereunder by paras 164 and 166 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision in appeal.
Paragraph 292 as modified by the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision came up for interpretation before this Court in State Bank of India vs Prakash Chand Mehra.
1 As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
5356 of the Desai award we may set out the two paragraphs in parallel columns for comparison Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision For workmen who enterd service of the bank before 31st January 1950 1.
3In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars whether in the previously existing or in the scales fixed by us should be ignored.
b To the basic pay into which he is fitted under cl.
d of cl.
ii and cl.
In this connection it is brought to our notice that in para.
5356 of the Desai award it was stated that the award was giving directions similar to those provided under the Sastry award as modified subject to certain changes which were considered necessary having regard to the lapse of time after coming into force of the provisions of the Sastry award as modified.
a of cl.
i and the basic pay to be fixed on January 1 1959 has to be fixed by reading sub cls.
a of cl.
d of cl.
The appellant bank s contention is that two further annual increments allowed under sub cl.
d of cl.
It is however urged on behalf of the appellant that sub cl.
d of cl.
But it may happen that increments provided in sub cl.
c may in some cases be not available where the actual pay as on January 1 1959 which will not be reduced under el.
His basic pay as on January 11959 was Rs 106.
a of cl.
a of cl.
