Appeal No 801 of 1963.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and decree dated September 2 1959 of the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
T V R Tatachari for the appellants.
P Raghaviah and R Ganapathy Iyer for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Gajendragadkar CJ.
The present appeal has been brought to this Court by special leave and it arises from a suit filed by the appellants against four respondents.
The properties involved in the suit consist of agricultural lands situated in Eragudi village Musiri taluk Tiruchirappalli district.
The original grantdeeds are not available but at the time of the settlement of the Inams in the sixties of the last century Inam title deeds were issued in favour of the family of Pachai Kandai Udayavar.
The appellants averred that the properties covered by the grant bad been granted in Inam to the original grantee burdened with the obligation of performing certain services in a Matam.
The said properties were alienated from time to time and as a result of the last alienation the appellants became entitled to them.
The appellants in the present litigation claimed a declaration about their title to the properties in suit and a permanent injunction restraining respondents 1 to 3 who claimed to be the trustees of an alleged Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple at Eragudi from interfering with their possession of the same.
Respondent No 4 is the Deputy Commissioner Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments L9Sup.
CI66 9 122 Tiruchirappalli and he has been impleaded because he has purported to appoint respondents 1 to 3 as trustees of the said alleged Temple on the 7th March 1951.
This suit No 103 of 1954 was instituted on the 13th September 1954 under section 87 of the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act No XIX of 1951 hereinafter called the Act  in the Court of the District Munsif at Turaiyur.
Respondents 1 to 3 who have been appointed as trustees of the said temple by respondent No 4 obtained a certificate from him that the properties in question belonged to the Temple and on the basis of the said certificate they had filed an application before the Magistrate having jurisdiction in the area under section 87 of the Act for possession.
Notice of this application was served on the appellants and they pleaded their own title to the properties.
The Magistrate however over ruled the claim made by the appellants and directed them to deliver possession of the properties to respondents 1 to 3.
Before this order could be executed and possession delivered to respondents 1 to 3 the appellants instituted the present suit.
Respondents 1 to 3 resisted this suit and contended that the properties in suit had not been granted to the predecessor of Pachai Kandai Udayavar as alleged by the appellants.
Their case was that the said properties had been granted to the Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple and formed part of its properties.
As trustees appointed by respondent No 4 they claimed that they were entitled to the possession of the properties.
On these pleadings four substantive issues were framed by the learned trial Judge they were  whether the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam whether the grant of the Inam was a religious endowment whether plaintiffs have title to the suit properties and whether plaintiffs have acquired title by prescription  On the first two issues oral and documentary evidence was adduced by the parties.
In consequence the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
This decision was challenged by respondents 2  3 before the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
There was evidence to show that the properties originally granted had been resumed by the Collector but the learned Judge took the view that the said resumption was only of the melwaram or assessment and that since the lands had been granted in Inam to the deity and its matam their title to the lands remained unaffected by the resumption proceedings.
In other words he negatived the appellants  claim that the original grant was in favour of their predecessors intitle though burdened with an obligation to render service to the matam.
This article has been introduced in the said Act by Amending Act 1 of 1929 and came into force on 1 1 1929.
That left the alienations covered by Exts.
Where however the transfer is made by the manager not as manager but as an individual and he deals with the property not on the basis that it belongs to the religious endowment but on the basis that it belongs to himself considerations which would govern the application of limitation are substantially different and in such a case the transfer being void ab initio the possession of the transferee is adverse from the date of the transfer.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
2 LR 27 IA 69.
3 LR 37 IA 147.
It may be permissible to state that this latter observation was made in 1899 long before the Privy Council enunciated the true legal position in regard to the status of the managers of Hindu religious endowments in Vidya Varuthi s case1.
2 LR 37 IA 147.
2 ILR 3 LR 37 IA 147.
It is remarkable that this notice describes Amirthalinga Iyer and Chinnasamy lyer as de facto trustees of the temple.
