Appeal No 787 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 5 1961 of the Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree No 1012 of 1955.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
Sukumar Ghose for respondent No 1.
The Judgment of WANCHOO C J and MITTER J was delivered by MITTER J BHAGAVA J delivered a separate Opinion.
Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
The question before us is whether the respondent No 1 was entitled.
to the benefit of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended finally by an Act of 1953.
The facts necessary for the disposal.
of this appeal are as follows.
On the 18th June 1948 the plaintiff the appellant before us instituted Suit No 292 of 1948 for ejectment of three Persons namely Abdul Rahim Abdul Hamid and Abdul Gaffur from the property in suit a parcel of land about 1 cottah 8 chittaks being part of premises No 6  1 Shibtola Lane Entally Calcutta.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
In the plaint itself the first two defendants were described as thika tenants.
No claim was made for rents or taxes although it was alleged that the same were in arrears.
The suit was contested only by the third defendant who filed a written statement in September 1948 contending that the suit was bad for non joinder of parties.
The suit was decreed by a Munsif of Sealdah court 24 Parganas on March 18 1949 after the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act of 1949 had come into force on February 28 1949.
The appeal filed therefrom by the third defendant was dismissed by the Subordinate Judge.
Fifth Additional 172 Court Alipore on November 23 1949.
The decree holder put the decree in execution and recovered possession of the land on December 18 1949.
The Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 was passed on October 21 1952 introducing various changes in the Act and substituting a new definition of a thika tenant.
On March 14 1953 the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Act 1953 was passed amending the definition of thika tenant still further and introducing important changes in the Act of 1949.
The effect of these provisions will be considered later on.
Before the Subordinate Judge a point was taken that after the coming into force of the Act of 1949 the Rent Controller alone had jurisdiction in respect of ejectment suits as the defendant appellant was a thika tenant.
The Subordinate Judge dismissed the plea on the ground that the defendant appellant had not erected the structures on the land and was not a successor in interest of the tenant but only a transferee.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
The learned Judge held that at the time when the appeal of the defendant was disposed of by the Subordinate Judge the rights of the parties were governed by the Thika Tenancy Act of 1949 and the definition of a thika tenant in that Act was not such as to afford any protection to the appellant.
In view of the amendment of the Act in 1953 however.
On remand the Subordinate Judge Seventh Court Alipore rejected the plea of the landlord that the appellant Gaffur could not be regarded as a thika tenant inter alia on the ground that he had sold his interest by a registered sale deed dated April 12 1949 to one Subasini.
The Ordinance had only six sections.
Section 2 defined a thika tenant  as meaning any person who under the system commonly known as thika thika masik utbandi thika masik thika bastu or under and other like system held land under another person whether under a written lease or otherwise and was or but for a special contract would be liable to pay rent at a monthly or any other periodical rate for that land to such other person and had erected any structure on such land and was entitled to use it for residential purposes or for manufacturing or business purposes and included the suc cessors in interest of such person.
Sub section.
Section 28 enactect that Where any decree or order for the recovery of possession of any holding from a thika tenant has been made before the date of commencement of this Act but the  possession of such holding has not been recovered from the thika tenant by the execution of such decree or order the Court by.
Section 29 on the other hand was made applicable to all proceedings including proceedings in execution which were pending at the date of the commencement of the Act.
If any such pending suit or proceeding related to any matter in respect of which the Controller was competent to pass orders the suit or proceeding would be transferred to the Controller who would deal with it in accordance with the provisions of the Act just as if the Act had been in operation on the date of the commencement of the suit or proceeding.
Sub section.
If the Court or Controller holds that the person is such a thika tenant.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
In such a case it became open to a person covered by the new definition of a thika tenant to make an application within three months of the commencement of the Ordinance either to the court or to the Controller as the case may be for relief on the basis that the applicant was a thika tenant.
Sub section.
No reference is made in this subsection to the date when the suit was instituted.
Only suits which were pending on 21st October 1952 were to be decided in terms of the Act as finally amended.
The language of the section leaves no room for doubt as to this.
