Appeal by special leave from the Award dated January 11 13 1964 of the Industrial Tribunal Orissa Cuttack in Industrial Dispute Case No 8 of 1962.
An industrial dispute between these workmen and the management of Orient Paper Mills Ltd hereinafter referred to as the Company was referred by the State Government under section 101 d of the Industrial Disputes Act hereinafter referred to as the Act for adjudication by the Tribunal enumerating 30 different items of dispute.
The second matter in the appeal related to bonus covered by item No 2 of that Schedule.
The first and the main point argued with regard to wages was that the Tribunal after holding that there was no identical industry in this region comparable with the Company came to.
the view that there were other industries in the region in which minimum wages were higher than the minimum wages paid by the Company but failed to fix the minimum wages in the award in accordance with the minimum wages being paid in those industries.
Instead what the Tribunal did was to work out the minimum wages which should be paid on an entirely different basis.
It was also urged in the alternative that even in adopting the latter course the Tribunal committed an error inasmuch as in making the calculation the Tribunal only tried to neutralise about 36 per cent of the cost of living 9n the basis of the rise in Price Index instead 669 of permitting neutralisation to the extent of at least 90 which could have been done when fixing the minimum wages for the owest class of workmen.
The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co Limited.
In applying that principle industrial courts have to compare wage scales prevailing in sinular concerns in the region with which it is dealing and generally speaking similar concerns would be those in the same line of business as the concern with respect to which the dispute is under consideration.
The Tribunal found that there are only two other paper mills in the region.
On this finding it is clear that the region cure industry principle laid down in the ease of French Motor Car Co Ltd 1 could not have been applied by the Tribunal when fixing the wages in the Company.
In fact the Tribunal also accepted them as being comparable and that is why in its conclusion the Tribunal held that in its opinion it would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region.
parts of the country.
in the same region.
