Appeal No 1311 of 1967.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 17 1967 of the Patna High Court in CWJC No 952 of 1966.
M C Chagla N D Karkhanis section P Chowdhury Bhuvanesh Kumari for the appellant.
section C Manchanda R N Sachthey and B D Sharma for the respondent.
This is an assessee s appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Patna dismissing in limini its writ petition under Arts 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.
The assessee is having construction contracts under the Railways as well as the Government.
It is a partnership firm.
For the assessment year 1960 61 relevant to the accounting year 1959 60 after the assessee submitted its income tax return it was asked by the Income tax Officer during the income tax assessment proceedings to produce before him its books of account and the other relevant papers.
The assessee also produced before him a statement showing various creditors from whom it had borrowed on Hundis during the accounting year in question.
In that statement it gave the lull names and address of the alleged creditors.
On June 3 1966 the 1st respondent Income tax Officer Ward A  Muzaffarpur issued to the assessee a notice under section 148 of the Indian Income tax Act 1961.
Income Tax Officer Muzaffarpur Dated the 3 6 1966.
TO Ms Chugamal Rajpal Muzaffarpur.
The notice is being issued after obtaining the necessary satisfaction of the Commissioner of IncomeTax Bihar and Orissa Patna.
Sd section P Chaliha Income Tax Officer Ward A Muzaffarpur.
 The assessee challenged the validity of that notice as well as proceedings taken on the strength of that notice on various grounds.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 1512 of the Act we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
In this case the notice was issued after four years but before eight years of the date of the original assessment.
2 The Income tax Officer shall before issuing any notice under this section record his reasons for doing so.
 Section 147 deals with income escaping assessment.
At this stage we need not refer to that section  We shall refer to that provision at a later stage.
Whether the Board is satisfied that it is aSecretary Board of Revenuefit case for the issue of notice under section 148.
Sd section P Chaliha 30 4 66.
That is not the same thing as saying that there are reasons to issue notice under section 148.
Before issuing a notice under section 148 the Income tax Officer must have either reasons to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of these assessee to make a return under section 139 for any assessment year to the Income tax Officer or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year or alternatively not withstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned above on the part of the assessee the Income tax Officer has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year.
a or cl.
