From the judgment and order dated the 8th February 1967 of Le Delhi High Court in Civil Writ No 531 D of 1964.
The facts bearing on this question may now be stated Respondent 1 hereinafter referred to as the Federation is a Company registered under section 26 of the Indian Companies Act 1913.
k To attain those advantages by united action which each member may not be able to accomplish in its separate capacity.
n O p q r s t u v x y To sell or dispose of the undertaking of the Federation or any part thereof for such consideration as the Federation may think fit and in particular for shares debentures or securities of any other association or company having objects altogether or in similar to those of the Federation.
z To take or otherwise acquire and hold shares in any other association or company having objects altogether or in part similar to those of the Federation.
zl To establish a Trust or Trusts andor appoint Trustees thereof from time to time and vest the funds or the surplus income or any property of the Federation in the Trustees who shall hold and deal with the funds surplus income or property in such manner as the Committee may decide.
z4 4 The income and property of the Federation whencesoever derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the Federation as set forth in the Memorandum of Association and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend bonus or otherwise by way of profit to the members of the Federation.
The scales of subscription on the basis of turnover deposits or premia for associate members have also been prescribed.
The Federation then moved the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution for bringing up and quashing the order dated February 4 1964 passed by the Chief Inspector Appellant 2.
  Shop means any premises where goods are sold either by retail or wholesale Or where services are rendered to customers and includes an office a stoic room godown warehouse or workhouse or work place whether in the same premises or otherwise used in or in connection with such trade or business but does not include a factory or commercial establishment.
It takes up with the concerned authorities the specific difficulties experienced by the trade in the day today business and endeavours to attain for the traders and industrialists those material advantages by unified action which they may not be able to achieve in their individual capacity.
