Civil Appeal No 1231 of 1968.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 20th December 1962 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Civil Appeal No 151 of 1960.
B D Bal with A G Ratnaparkhi for the appellant.
V section Desai with M N Shroff for section P Nayar for respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by GOSWAMI J.
The question that arises in this appeal by special leave is whether Shri Vithal Sukhamai Sansthan at Amalner East Khandesh was a private Devasthan or a public religious trust.
There was a saint endowed with spiritual powers by the name of Sakharam Maharaj at Amalner.
The deity of his worship was Shri Vithal Rukhamai.
Although the origin of the Sansthan is dipped somewhat in antiquity and direct testimony was lacking it has never been disputed that Sakharam Maharaj constructed a temple in the year 1817 at Amalner and installed the aforesaid deity according to religious rites.
He also acquired certain properties and the said temple with the properties constituted Shri Vithal Rukhamai Sansthan of Amalner.
The sansthan had movable property of the value of Rs 19164 and immovable properties of the value of Rs 106000 and the average gross annual income as well as the average annual expenditure was Rs 11000 .
After the passing of the Bombay Public Trusts Act 1950 No 29 of 1950 briefly the Act an application under section 18 of that Act was filed by three persons Bhaskarrao Chimanrao Deshmukh Ramrao Sahebrao Deshmukh and Ramkrishna Tryambak Deshpande as constituted attorneys of Vasudeobuwa who was described in the application as the owner of the property.
The word Buwa  means saint.
The application was made on May 29 1952 to the Assistant Charity Commissioner Poona under protest and without prejudice 520 to the claim made therein that the Sansthan was not a public trust.
At the close of the enquiry the Assistant Charity Commissioner by his order of August 25 1956 held the Sansthan to be a public trust and ordered its registration as a public trust under the Act.
The applicants thereupon filed an appeal under section 70 of the Act before the Charity Commissioner Bombay who by his order of August 31 1957 affirmed the decision of the Assistant Charity Commissioner.
The learned District Judge reversed the decision of the Charity Commissioner by his order of October 16 1959 and declared the Sansthan to be a private property and not a public trust.
The High Court particularly relied upon an admission of the appellant s witness Ramkrishna Deshpande when he stated that we cannot prevent people from going to the temple as the temple is meant for the Darshan by the public.
Then came Vasudeo.
This evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande stands corroborated by the Sanad which shows in the year 1860 61 the Manager of the Sansthan as Balkrishnabuwa Guru Govindbuwa.
That ownership is of your own.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
We are unable to accept this submission as we find some other significant recitals in the documents itself warranting a contrary conclusion.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously.
