From the Judgment and Order dated 1 12 1975 of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Criminal Original Nos.
13 Crl of 1975 and 14 Crl of 1975.
D Mookherjee and Harbans Singh and VM Jain for the appellants.
Deven Chetan Das Advocate General Haryana and RN Sachthey for the respondent.
In that letter they brought to the notice of the President that Justice DS Tewatia of the Punjab and Haryana High Court visited the session division of Bhiwani and inspected the Courts from 14 February 1975 to 19 February 1975.
In that letter they further stated as follows The learned Judge met the members of the Bar on 15 February 1975 in the Bar Room Bhiwani.
During the course of the meeting the learned Judge criticised the Government s policy in regard to its attitude towards the judiciary.
He suggested the members of the Bar to revolt against the present Government as it has suppressed the civil liberation sic of the individuals and has also failed miserably in all fields.
The members of the District Bar Association highly regret the attitude of Justice DS Tewatia and urge the Government to take appropriate action in this regard.
Five members of the Bar Association at Charkhi Dadri sent a letter addressed to the President.
with copies to the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court the Chief Minister of Haryana the Chief Justice of India and the Prime Minister.
In that letter they said that Justice DS Tewatia visited the Bar and inspected the court at Charkhi Dadri on 17 February 1975.
Thereafter they stated as follows While talking with the members of the Bar he pointed out that the library of this Bar seems to be very poor.
Then Shri Virender Kumar Single a member of the Bar requested the honourable Judge to help the Bar either by supplying books or by allocating the grant by the High Court so that the needy Bar may be able to purchase necessary books for the library.
Then the Honourable Judge turned down the request and replied that it is never possible in the present system of Government of India.
If you want this kind of help then you should prepare yourself for the commu nist Government in India by creating such atmosphere in the country.
The learned Judge also met Smt.
Chandrawati.
The High.
MR Appeals allowed.
