Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated the 19th March 1975 of the Bombay High Court in First Appeal No 524 of 1966 from original decree.
It will be easier with the help of the following pedigree to understand the point involved in this appeal Khandappa Sangappa Magdum Hirabai Plaintiff Gurupad Biyawwa Bhagirathibai Dhundubai Shivapad Deft 1 Deft 3 Deft.
On November 6  1962 Hirabai filed special civil suit No 26 of 1963 in the court of the Joint Civil Judge Senior Division Sangli for partition and separate possession of a 724th share in two houses a land two shops avoid movables on the basis that these properties belonged to the joint family consisting of her husband herself and their two sons.
If a partition were to take place during Khandappa s lifetime between himself and his two sons the plaintiff would have got 14th share in the joint family properties the other three getting 14th share each.
Khandappa s 14th share would devolve upon his death on six sharers the plaintiff and her five children each having a 124th share therein.
Adding 14th and 124th the plaintiff claims a 724th share in the joint family properties.
That in short is the plaintiffs case.
Defendants 2 to 5 admitted the plaintiff s claim the suit having H been contested by defendant 1 Gurupad only.
He contended that the suit properties did not belong to the joint family that they were Khandappa s self requisitions and that on the date of Khandappa s 764 death in 1960 there was no joint family in existence.
There was therefore no question of a fresh partition.
That in short is the case of defendant 1.
Upon that finding the plaintiff.
became indisputably entitled to a share in the joint family properties but following the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Shiramabai Bhimgonda vs Kalgonda1 the learned trial judge limited that share to 124th refusing to add 14th and 124th together.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
Another Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji2 had already reconsidered and dissented from earlier Division Bench judgment in Shiramabai Bhimgonda1 In these two cases the judgment of the Bench was delivered by the same learned Judge Patel J.
On further consideration the learned Judge felt that Shiramabai1 was not fully argued and was incorrectly decided and that on a true view of law the widow s share must be ascertained by adding the share to which she is entitled at a notional partition during her husband s life time and the share which she would get in her husband s interest upon his death.
That section reads thus 6.
LR351.
 The Hindu Succession Act came into force on June 17 1956 Khandappa having died after the commencement of that Act to wit in 1960 and since he had at the time of his death an interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property the pre conditions of section 6 are satisfied and that section is squarely attracted.
By the application of the normal rule prescribed by that section Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
Before considering the implications of Explanation 1 it is necessary to remember that what section 6 deals with is devolution of the interest which a male Hindu has in a Mitakshare coparcenary property at 766 the time of his death.
Two things become necessary to determine for the purpose of giving relief to the plaintiff.
The proviso to section 6 contains the formula for fixing the share of the claimant while Explanation 1 contains a formula for deducing the share of the deceased.
In a partition between Khandappa and his two sons there would be four sharers in the coparcenary property the fourth being Khandappa s wife the plaintiff.
