Civil Appeals Nos 2299 and 2300 of 1979.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Award dated 20 12 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra in Reference IT No 292 of 1975 published in Maharashtra Government Gazette dated 15th February 1979.
G B Pai Manick K Gagrat J B Dadachanji O C Mathur and K J John for the Appellants in CA No 2299 and Respondents in CA 230079.
V M Tarkunde P H Parekh section R Deshpande and Miss Manik Tarkunde for the Respondents in CA 2299 and Appellants in CA No 230079.
The following Judgements were delivered PATHAK J.
It functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
They served a Charter of Demands in July 1974 on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the State Government made a reference of the dispute under section 101 d Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra for adjudication.
170 The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
The dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
The claim of the Union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the Union were accepted.
Reference was made to the political uncertainty in Iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant s business in jeopardy and to various other factors peculiar to an engineering consultancy business beyond the appellant s control.
There was no separate dearness allowance until January 1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
House rent allowance was also paid.
Nothing those facts the Tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
The need for revising the wage scales was not disputed by the appellant.
In proceeding to revise the wage structure the Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
Holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the Tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No 23 but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure Rs 150  were omitted.
A similar statement was prepared on the basis of the employees  strength as in September 1978.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No 23 but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure Rs 150  were omitted.
The copy of the letter dated July 23 1973 alongwith the Annexures from the Company to the Director General Posts  Telegraphs Delhi exhibit C 27 indicates the important projects the Company was handling in India and abroad and the amount of foreign exchange earned and repatriated.
Fitment If as on 1st January 1976 an employee is drawing a salary less than the beginning of the respective grade he should be first stepped up to the beginning of the grade.
If the pay of an employee does not coincide with any step in the revised pay scale and falls between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay of that employee shall be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
After fixing the salary of the employees in the scales as above the employees should be given increments in the new scales as noted below i Employees who have completed 5 years or more as on 1st January 1976 3 increments.
ii Employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st January 1976 2 increments.
Therefore they filed an application before the Tribunal for correcting the award so as to bring out what was intended.
The application before the Tribunal was filed under Rule 31 of the Bombay Industrial Disputes Rules 1957 which is as follows A Board Court Labour Court Tribunal or Arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
The result of the foregoing discussion is that Civil Appeal No 2299 of 1979 has to be dismissed in its entirety.
The Tribunal has given satisfactory reason for adopting a different mode and we are not disposed to interfere with the award of the Tribunal.
In the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.
