Civil Appeals No 2611 and 2611 A of 1981.
578 DD Thakur SN Kacker and RP Bhatt for respondent in 261181.
Altaf Ahmad and Irfan Ahmad for respondent No 2.
section Ghosh and A K Nag for the intervener.
 We now proceed to state in this judgment the reasons in support of our aforesaid conclusion 579 In July 1966 the appellant Ved Gupta decided to embark upon a venture to construct and operate an air conditioned Cinema in a plot of land which he proposed to take on lease in Gandhi Nagar Jammu in Collaboration with two osher persons namely Todar Mal and Kishan Kumar.
Accordingly on July 22 1966 Ved Gupta purporting to act on behalf of a partnership consisting of himself and the two persons aforementioned as a matter of fact no partnership had been constituted at all by that date applied to the District Magistrate Jammu under section 3 of the Jammu and Kashmir Cinematograph Act 1989 1933 AD herein after referred to as the Act for permission to construct a modern Cinema Hall at the proposed site a detailed description of which was furnished in the plan annexed to the application.
Shri Ved Gupta was informed by the District Magistrate Jammu by his Memo Annexure B that the Government had approved the construction of a Cinema Hall at the proposed site and had granted the requisite permission in his favour as per letter dated September 11 1967 issued by the Secretary to Government General Department.
From Annexure B it would appear that the permission so granted was in favour of Ved Ved Gupta in his individual capacity and not as the representative of any firm.
In the meantime by a deed dated December 7 1966 which was registered on December 24 1966 the plot in question was taken on lease jointly by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar for a period of 40 years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
Thereafter under a deed dated July 15 1969 the aforesaid three persons entered into a partnership along with 11 others under the name and style Metro Theatres for carrying on the business of constructing and running a modern air conditioned Cinema in the site covered by the permission granted by the Government.
Clause 15 of the said deed provided that the site for construction of a Cinema which had been obtained on lease by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar in their own names shall not be their personal property but shall be the property of the partnership and that the permission which Ved Gupta had obtained from the Government for construction of the Theatre in the said plot shall be treated as the property of the partnership.
 The construction of the Cinema Theatre appears to have been completed by the middle of June 1969.
Annexure C is a copy of the said application and it shows that it was filed by Ved Gupta in his personal capacity without any mention whatever therein of the partnership.
On July 22 1969 a licence was issued by the District Magistrate to Ved Gupta under Section 3 of the Act to give public exhibition of cinematograph films at the Apsara Theatre situated at Gandhi Nagar Jammu.
Annexure D is a copy of the said licence and it is expressly stated therein that the said licence has been granted to Shri Ved Gupta and that it shall remain in force until March 31 1970 provided that Shri Ved Gupta or any person to whom with the consent of the licensing authority the licence is transferred continues to own or manage the cinematographs used ill the said Apsara Theatre.
 Soon thereafter on December 3 1975 Todar Mall who had retired from the firm and Krishan Kumar who continued to be a partner jointly issued a notice to the District Magistrate Jammu claiming that their names should also be included in the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Apsara Theatre.
After considering the arguments advanced before him by the counsel appearing for the contending parties the District Magistrate passed a detailed order dated December 29 1977 rejecting the request of Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar and declaring Shri Ved Gupta to be the sole licensee authorized to run the Apsara Theatre.
He filed a writ petition in the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir challenging the legality and validity of the orders passed by the District Magistrate and the appellate authority namely the State Government.
On April 19 1979.
On April 27 1979 a suit was instituted against Ved Gupta and seven others by seven of the partners including Krishan Kumar for a declaration that the Cinema licence dated July 22 1969 issued by the District Magistrate Jammu 8th defendant for exhibition of cinematographs in the building known as Apsara Theatre Gandhi Nagar Jammu is the property of the firm Apsara Theatre and for a prohibitory injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 namely Shri Ved Gupta and six of the partners who were residing with him from interfering with the running of the Cinema by the plaintiffs and also for a prohibitory injunction against the District Magistrate defendant 8 restraining him from interfering in any manner with the exhibition by the plaintiffs of cinematographs in the premises of Apsara Theatre.
On the date of the institution itself the District Judge Jammu issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
In being served with the order of injunction Ved Gupta wrote to the District Magistrate on September 24 1980 that it had become impossible for him to operate the Cinema licence in view of the temporary injunction issued by the District Court and since it is only the licensee who is held responsible under the Act and the Rules for due compliance with all the terms and conditions of the licence and answerable to the licensing authority for all commissions and omissions in the Cinema premises he may be saved from any prosecution or other action under law in the capacity of licensee of the Apsara Theatre in respect of any illegal acts or offences committed by others in the said premises.
On 583 September 26 1980 the Superintendent of Police Jammu City reported to District Magistrate that on verification by the Sub Inspector deputed for the purpose it had been found that the cinematographs were being conducted in the Apsara Theatre by persons other than the licensee and the Police had challaned the licensee under Section 6 of the Act.
It was contended inter alia by the petitioner that there had been a gross violation of the principles of natural justice inasmuch as the petitioner firm and its partners had not been given any notice or afforded hearing before the impugned order was passed.
The learned Judges took the view that Rule 23 of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court Rules 1975 squarely covered the situation that had arisen before them.
3 If there is no such majority then the decision shall be in accordance with the decision of the senior Judge except in the case of an appeal from a decree where such decree shall be confirmed 586 In the opinion of the Division Bench the present case was governed by sub rule 3 of Rule 23 and consequently the decision in the case had to be in accordance with the opinion of the senior Judge.
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court Ved Gupta has filed these appeals after obtaining special leave from this Court.
