CSS Rao for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by 308 PATHAK J.
In each of the assessments the Wealth Tax Officer included a sum of Rs 150000 estimated as the accrued interest on the assessee s money lending investments.
The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and urged that as it maintained its books of account in accordance with the cash system of accounting the accrued interest on the money lending investments could not be included in the wealth tax assessments.
In doing so the Appellate Assistant Commissioner followed Commissioner of Wealth tax Bihar and Orissa vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju Orissa1 The Wealth Tax Officer appealed to the Appellate Tribunal and contended that accrued interest was liable to be included in the wealth tax assessments of the assessee.
The Wealth Tax Officer sought support from a judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedreva Venkappa Rao vs Commissioner of Wealth tax2 AP.
The Appellate Tribunal observed that the judgment of the Orissa High Court was binding on it and accordingly by a consolidated order dated April 3 1972 it dismissed the appeals.
Under section 3 of the Wealth Tax Act wealth tax is charged for every assessment year in respect of the net wealth of the assessee on the corresponding valuation date.
The expression net wealth is defined by cl.
m of s2 of the Act as the amount by which the aggregate value  .
Of all the assets wherever located belonging to the assessee on the valuation date is in excess of the aggregate value of all the debts owed by the assessee on the valuation date  According to the scheme of the Wealth Tax Act the net wealth of an assessee has to be determined as it obtains on a particular date.
That is the valuation date.
q of s2 indicates that broadly Parliament has fixed upon the last day of the previous year as defined under the Income Tax Act as the valuation date.
There is an obvious advantage in adopting as the valuation date the last day of a period which is also the relevant period under the Income Tax Act.
The reasons for defining the valuation date in terms of the last day of the income tax previous year stop there.
That being so the conclusion is inescapable that even though the accounts of the assessee are maintained on cash basis interest due on accrual basis though not realised on the outstandings of the money lending business are liable to be included in the net wealth of the assessee.
