From the.
Judgment and Order dated 611971 of the Allahabad High Court in Wealth Tax Reference No 285 of 1965 124 SC Manchanda and Ms A Subhashini for the Appellant.
The questions involved before the Allahabad High Court in the reference under section 271 of the Act were as follows 1 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs 150000 on 11.
Rs25000 Om Prakash Gupta .
Rs25000 Hari Prakash Gupta .
Rs50000 Pravin Kumar Gupta .
It appears further that copies of this letter were sent to one Om Prakash Gupta and Ved Prakash Gupta.
There was no dispute that instructions of the assessee were car ried out by the Company and relevant debit and credit en tries were made in the respective accounts.
On the same day ie on ist January 1957 Om Parkash Gupta wrote to the assessee his father thanking him for the gift of Rs25000 made in his favour and the gift of Rs50000 in favour of his son Pravin.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee his father for the gift of Rs25000 made to him and Rs50000 gifted to his son.
It must be mentioned however that the company ie Messrs Tika Ram and Sons.
Ltd was stated to be running an oil mill and carrying on business as grain tillers.
contractors and brick kiln owners.
It was also stated to be carrying on business of advancing money and taking money on loan when necessary.
The respective donees were stated to have later on withdrawn amounts from the amounts so transferred to their accounts.
It was his contention that Tika Ram  Sons carried on the business of banking and hence the gifts were valid.
The Tribunal held that they were not carrying on banking business.
The main question therefore that falls for consid eration is whether gifts in question made by transfer en tries in the books of debtor company were valid gifts even though the debtor company was not carrying on business of banking and had no cash in hand for the amount in question on that date.
Gift is defined in section 122 of the as transfer of certain existing mova ble or immovable property made voluntarily and without consideration by 126 one person called the donor to another called the donee and accepted by or on behalf of the donee.
Section 123 of the said Act deals with how transfers are effected and stipulates inter alia that for the purpose of making a gift of movable property as in this case the transfer must be effected either by a registered instrument signed by the donor and attested or by delivery.
Such delivery may be made in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
The next contention was regarding the inclusion of net wealth a sum of Rs6756012 standing to the credit of the assessee in the books of Ms Pearls  Beads.
The Tribunal held that there was no valid gifts.
In case of entries in the books of ac count by credit and debit the sums should be available on the date of gift in the account of the firm whose accounts are said to be credited or debited.
This question has been examined by the various High Courts.
But in such cases 127 merely books entries would not suffice.
Such delivery may be in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
It was  held that there was no valid gift.
