K Parasaran Attorney General AK Ganguli and P Parmeshwaran for the Respondents.
450 452 of 1985A dated 4th July 1985 473184A and 47484A both dated 21st June 1984 passed by the Customs Excise  Gold Control Appellate Tribunal hereinafter referred to as the Tribunal .
There it manufactures and sells fusel oilStyrene Monomer falling under Tariff Item No 68 of the Ist Schedule to the Act.
The case of the appellant is that the said fusel oil is a com pletely manufactured article and after completion of its manufacture it is stored in storage tanks duly approved for this purpose.
It is at this stage that the quantity of fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufactured according to the appel lant is entered in the RG 1 Register maintained for goods manufactured by the appellant.
It is also the case of the appellant that the said fusel oilStyrene Monomer manufac tured by it is sold in bulk and delivered to the customers at the appellant s factory.
The fusel oilStyrene Monomer is also capable of being supplied in road tankers to customers.
The appellant had filed its price lists in respect of the same.
In the said price lists which were duly approved by the Asstt.
Collector the appellant had shown the value of fusel oilStyrene Monomer at the rate at which those were sold in wholesale as naked Ex Works and in bulk.
According to the appellant the manufacture of fusel oil is complete and it is the fully manufactured fusel oilStyrene Monomer which is stored in the storage tank.
On 2nd July 1983 a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
Another show cause notice as to why value of the drums should not be included in the assessable value of the goods was issued to the appellant on the 5th April 1983 pertaining to Gate Pass No 773 whereunder the appellant had cleared 24 KI of fusel oil in drums supplied by the buyer.
Replies were duly filed to the said show cause notices by the appellant contending inter alia that as the drums were supplied by the buyer value thereof could not be included in the assessable value.
The Assistant Collector included the value of the drums in the assessable value of the said fusel oilStyrene Monomer.
There was a further appeal to the Tribunal.
The Tribunal held that at the time of removal the goods were delivered from the factory in packed condition and the containers were not returnable by the buyer there fore the value had to be included in the assessable value.
Collector.
There is no room he contended for any intendment.
There is no presump tion as to tax.
Collector in those appeals had included the costs of such drums in the value of styrene monomer.
According to the learned Attorney General the fact that 90 of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10 represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
