From the Judgment and Order dated 32.
Raja Ram Aggarwal Arvind Minocha HK Singh SK Bagga SC Patel and SK Gambhir for the Appellants.
Kapil Sibal Additional Solicitor General SP Goel A Subba Rao CVS Rao Mahabir Singh Bishambher Lal and KC Dua for the Respondents.
1.
Counsel state that the facts in all these appeals are identical and that the only facts neces sary or atleast on record before us on the basis of which the issue us is to be decided are these Each of the appellants petitioners hereinafter referred to compendi ously as assessees  is a registered dealer in the State of Haryana.
He purchased certain raw materials in the State without paying tax thereon in view of the provision con tained in section 24 of the Act.
He then manufactured certain goods in the State with the aid of said raw materials.
He then sold the manufactured goods to dealers who in turn exported those goods out of India.
On these facts it is claimed the assessee is not liable to pay the purchase tax on the raw materials imposed under section 91 of the Act.
This claim has been rejected by the taxing authorities and the High Court and hence these appeals.
The writ petitions have been filed directly in this Court in view of a learned single Judge of the High Court having decided the issue against the assessees as early as 2511.
1980 in CWP 122780 which was also affirmed by a Division Bench later 2.
The Act is a much amended one and Some of its provi sions have been recently amended with retrospective effect from 27th May 1971 a point of time when actually a prede cessor Act the Punjab General Sales Tax Act 1948 had been in force.
The provisions of the statute relevant for our purpose and their relevant amendments may be noticed first 347 1.
Section 2e a Originally section 2e defined export  to mean the taking out of goods from the State to any place outside it otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce.
 b Act 44 of 1976 added at the end of the above definition the following words wef.
141976 or in the course of export out of the territory of India.
Section 2p a section 2p defined the expression turnover  as includ ing the aggregate of the amounts of the sales and purchases   made by any dealer in any capacity during a given period.
Explanation 2 to the second defini tion provided 2 The proceeds of the sale of any goods on the purchase of which tax is leviable under this Act or the purchase value of any goods on the sales of which tax is leviable under this Act shall not be included in the turnover but the purchase value of the goods liable to tax under section 9 shall be included.
So we have to proceed on the basis that the underlined words never were there in el.
Provided that this section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Goods on which no tax is leviable section 6 read with section 15.
2 Every dealer to whom sub section 1 does not apply shall subject to other provisions of this Act be liable to pay tax under this Act on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Provided further that  .
b section 6 was amended by Act I of 1990 to read as follows with retrospective effect from 275.
1971 section 6 Incidence of taxation 1 Every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the coming into force of the provisions of this section exceeded the taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of the provi sions of this section.
349 Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B 2 Every dealer to whom sub section 1 does not apply shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum.
XXX XXX XXX The earlier Explanation however is omitted with the same retrospective effect.
