ivil Misc.
Petition No 15001 of 1989.
AND IA No 1 of 1989 in SLP No 12288 of 1984.
From the Judgment and Order dated 2041984 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Appeal No 472 of 1976.
K Mahadeva Reddy Ms Manjul Gupta TVSN Chari and A Subba Rao for the Petitioner.
K Ram Kumar SA Ahmed Tanweer Abdul and Mohan Pandey for the Respondents.
The following Order of the Court was delivered 540 The special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution is directed against the affirming judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in a suit for title and injunction.
In view of the fact that a petition of compromise in respect of the entire subject matter of litigation has been filed in this Court it is unnecessary to refer to the facts leading to the litigation.
We shall therefore confine the discussion to matters pertinent to the compromise.
Subbamma adopted one KV Seshiah.
Seshiah married two wives.
Through the first wife he had a son born to him by name Sudarshan Gupta and through the second another son by name Anand Babu.
In February 1985 during the pendency of the special leave petition the adoptive mother died.
Sudarshan and Anand Babu led claim to the entire property of Subbamma exclusively to each of them under two different wills said to be by subbamma and each contended that the other will was a forged one.
With the death of the adoptive mother Seshiah led claim to the entire property as heir.
While each of the parties had taken such stand in the litigation a compromise was brought about on 2181987 between the father and his two sons and the same was filed in this Court.
The terms of the compromise stipulated payment of Rs 1 lakh by the father to each of his two sons in lieu of relinquishment of their interest.
When the matter was listed before the Court for recording of the compromise Sudarshan Gupta second respondent herein maintained that he had not been paid Rs1 lakh as stipulated and he had no intention to accept the compromise.
The alienees 541 have now been brought on record unders order of this Court.
We have heard counsel for the original parties as also the alienees.
The alienations are for about a purported consideration of Rs 4 lakhs.
The sale deeds indicate that a sum of Rs 1 lakh had been received earlier and a net amount of Rs77124 out of the consideration money under these documents has been paid before the registering authority.
Admittedly the transfers are pendente lite.
The alienees have made an attempt to hold out that there were agreements for sale prior to the compromise for which there is no acceptable evidence.
Mr Ram Kumar who appeared for the second respondent apart from maintaining that his client has not received the sum of Rs1 lakh has not been able to point out any justification as to why the compromise should not be acted upon and on the basis of it the litigation may not be disposed of.
Counsel for the alienees has taken the stand that the said alienations are valid and the transferees have become owners of the property and has even maintained that there have been improvements of the property by the alienees.
This amount shall be deposited in the Registry of this Court within the time indicated and Sudarshan Gupta shall be free to withdraw the amount.
Rs 77124 being the amount paid by the alienees before the Sub Registrar in respect of the sale deeds shall be deposited within the same period in the Trial Court and the alienees of the different sale deeds would be entitled to withdraw the amounts on the basis of the record made by the Sub Registrar on each of the sale deeds.
If necessary the Trial Court may appoint a Commissioner and take police help for executing this order and such cost shall ultimately be borne by the defaulting alienees but may initially be met by Seshiah.
