ivil Appeals Nos 259 and 260 of 1958.
February 23.
In Appeal No 260 58 a further question arose whether in the case of 259 that assessee the year ending June 30 1949 was the previous year for the assessment year 1950 51 with the result that it should be assessed under the Indian Income tax Act of 1922.
But this question was not answered by the High Court which confined itself to answering the first question which was common to both the appeals.
The appellant before us in both the appeals is the Commissioner of Income tax and the respondents are the two assessees in one case a Bank and the other a private limited company.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 321 and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act hereinafter called the Travancore Act.
In C A No 25958 the assessee is a public limited company incorporated in the State of Cochin with branches in that State as well as in what was British India and in Travancore State.
The assessee s appeal to the Income tax Commissioner was unsuccessful but the Appellate Tribunal held that the banking business of the assessee being one and indivisible for the purpose of determining the amount assessable to income tax it was entitled to deduct the losses incurred outside Travancore State from the profits accruing and arising in that State.
In C A 26058 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
It was carrying on business at its head office in Cochin State and it also carried on business in Travancore State.
The assesse made a profit in Travancore State and incurred a loss in the State of Cochin and sought to deduct this loss from the profit of Travancore State thus showing a net profit of Rs 2643.
The Appellate Tribunal also did not accept the submissions of the assessee and upheld the order of assessment.
On an application of the assessee the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the loss of Rs 27709 arising in Cochin State could be set off against the profit of Rs 38998 arising in Travancore State   and was answered in favour of the assessee.
It may be stated that the relevant sections of the Travancore Act which govern the two appeals are identically worded with those of the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 to be called the Indian Act.
The corresponding sections are as follows Headings Sections in Section in Travancore Act.
Indian Act.
Sections in brackets are the corresponding sections of the Indian Act.
The question for decision is as to how this proviso is to be construed.
Ordinarily the effect of an excepting or a qualifying proviso is to carve something out of the preceding enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be in it and such a proviso cannot be construed as enlarging the scope of an enactment when it can be fairly and properly construed without attributing to it that effect.
Corporation of the City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada 1.
By the addition of this section the loss under one head of profits or gains was allowed to be set off against income profits and gains under any other bead in any assessment year.
Appeals dismissed.
