premises.
on the 19th july 1899 rajendra made and published his last will and testament whereby he confirmed the dedication made by dwarka nath with regard to premises nos.
he died on the 31st january1900 and jogendra obtained on the 24th april 1900.
probate of his said will.
on the 4th september 1909 bhupendra jnanendra.
41 grey street was allotted to the branch of rajendra and the remaining portion was allotted to jogendra absolutely and in consideration of a sum of rs 6500 to be paid to the plaintiffs jogendra was declared entitled absolutely to the premises.
No 401.
grey street.
41 grey street allotted to the branch of rajendra was subsequently numbered 41 a grey street.
a consent decree was passed in the said suit on the 9th september 1929.
hari pada.
dutt and durga charan dutt for a sum of rs 19000.
on the 19th july 1948 the family idol of dwarka nath sree sree iswar sridhar jew by its next friend debabrata ghosh the son of nagendra filed the suit out of which the present appeal arises against the appellants as also against susilabala and the two sons of jogendra by her amongst others for a declaration that the premises nos.
andor rajendra relating to the said premises or any of them purporting to affect its rights in the said premises were invalid and inoperative in law and not binding on it for an account of the dealings with the said premises for a scheme of management of the debutter properties and for its worship for discovery receiver injunction and costs.
No 41 a.
per annum from the 19th july 1945 till payment or till the said sum was deposited in court to the credit of the suit.
the appeal and the cross objections came on for hearing before harries c j and section n banerjee j who delivered judgment on the 5th march 1951 dismissing the said appeal and allowing the cross objection in regard to rs 19000 filed by the idol against the appellants.
a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution was granted on the 4th june 1951 and the high court admitted the appeal finally on the 6th august 1951.
the petition for special leave was therefore allowed to be withdrawn and no objection now survives in regard to the decree passed by the trial court dismissing the idol s claim to the premises No 402 a.
No 41.
grey street and that his possession of the said premises thereafter became adverse which adverse possession continued for upwards of 12 years extinguishing the right of the idol to the said premises.
No 41 grey street together with land thereunder to the said sri sri issur sridhar jew.
with a view to provide for the expenses of his daily and periodical sheba and festivals etc.
the 3 12 cattahs three and half cattahs of rent free land more or less that i have on that very.
on my demise none of my heirs and representatives shall ever be competent to take the income of the said land No 401 and spend the samefor household expenses.
No 41 grey street dedicated by me shall properly and agreeably to each other perform the sheba.
the question whether the idol itself shall be considered the true beneficiary subject to a charge in favour of the heirs or specified relatives of the testator for their upkeep or that on the other hand these heirs shall be considered the true beneficiaries of the property subject to a charge for the upkeep worship and expenses of the idol is a question which can only be settled by a conspectus of the entire provisions of the will pande har narayan v surja kunwari 1921 l r 48 i a 143 145 146 1921 indlaw pc 56.
3 of the will is an absolute dedication of the premises.
they are to be registered in the municipal records in the name of the deity the municipal bills have got to be taken also in his name and none of the testator s representatives heirs successors executors administrators or assigns is to have any manner of interest in or right to the said premises or is to be competent to give away or effect sale mortgage etc.
there is thus a clear indication of the intention of the testator to absolutely dedicate the said premises to the deity and it is impossible to urge that there was a partial dedication of the premises to the deity.
this argument however can not avail the appellants.
it was observed by lord buckmaster in delivering the judgment of the privy council in gnanendra nath das v surendra nath das 1920 24 c w n 1926 at p 1030.
in that case it is provided that the shebait for the time being shall be entitled to reside with his family in the said dwelling house but the dwelling house itself is the place specially set apart for the family idols to which specific reference is made in the will and in their lordships opinion the gift is only a perfectly reasonable arrangement to secure that the man in whose hands the supervision of the whole estate is vested should have associated with his duties the right to reside in this named dwelling place.
41 grey street to the idol was an absolute dedication.
regards the second contention viz the adverse possession of nagendra it is to be noted that under the terms of cl 3 of the will of dwarka nath the representatives successors and heirs of his two sons rajendra and jogendra were successively to perform the seva in the manner therein mentioned and nagendra was one of the heirs and legal representatives of rajendra.
his two elder brothers jnanendra and bhupendra were declared to be the then sevayats but a right was reserved to nagendra to join with them as a sevayat on his attaining majority.
adverse possession in such circumstances is a notion almost void of content.
against the shebaits on the idol s behalf and in the present case it may be said that the acts of the shebaits must have i been notorious in the family.
we are in perfect accord with the observations made by rankin c j if a shebait by acting contrary to the terms of his appointment or in breach of his duty as such shebait could claim adverse possession of the dedicated property against the idol it would be putting a premium on dishonesty and breach of duty on his part and no property which is dedicated to an idol would ever be safe.
grey street by adverse possession.
