of india took steps to acquire some lands of agriculturists pursuant to which a notification dated november 27 1962 was issued under section 4 of the land acquisition act 1894 for acquiring 51 79 acres of land situated in the state of ahmedpur.
the lands which were acquired belonged to several land holders including moti ram and p w 12 kewal chand.
apart from this amount compensation was also awarded for standing crop amounting to rs 11073 13.
before the land was actually acquired the appellant who was a major in the military engineering service was working as a garrison engineer and was inching of the extension.
the work of the extension of aerodynamic was entrusted to one telu ram p w 8 contractor with whom the trusted to m e s department entered into an agreement on december 3 1962.
this agreement was signed both by the appellant and p w 14.
after the completion of the first phase the second phase was to start on 10th october 1963 and completed by 9th may 1964.
february 1963 to the appellant.
the receipt ex.
24 bears the signature of n l handa the tehsildar and of sukhchain lal jain p w 11 on behalf of the military estate officer and the appellant.
from this receipt it is evident that possession of 50 12 acres was handed over by the tehsildar and taken over by the appellant and the military estate officer sukhchain lal jain.
in respect of this allegation the first information report exhibit p 29 was issued on 14 1 64 in which the following statement is relevant.
after accepting illegal gratification of rs 3000 from them.
major som nath did not account for this amount in the govt.
he thus.
abused his position as a public servant and caused pecuniary advantage to said shri moti ram and kewal chand by giving them standing crops worth rs 13000 for a consideration of.
a regular case is therefore registered and entrusted to inspector baldev rai handa for investigation.
after this f i r certain statements were recorded by the military authorities being da to de dm dm 1 dn dl of mani gain mulkh raj ganpat ram telu ram kewal chand and sukhchain lal jain.
a chargesheet was filed against the appellant under section 5 1 c and 5 1 d read with 5 2 of the prevention of corruption act on 5 8 1966 after obtaining sanction from the govt.
of india ministry of home affairs on llth april 1966 as per exhibit p 23.
and which had been valued at rs 11073 13 by the revenue authorities dishonestly or fraudulently allowed moti ram of sirsa to misappropriate the said standing crop and thereby contravened section 51c of the prevention of corruption act punishable with section 52 of that act.
against that conviction and sentence he appealed to the high court which maintained the conviction and sentence.
before we consider these contentions it is necessary to determine another submission of the learned advocate for the appellant which goes to the root of the jurisdiction of the court to try the offence under section 51c.
if this contention is valid then the conviction of the accused can not stand and therefore it is necessary to deal with this matter first.
for a sanction to be valid it must be established that the sanction was given in respect of the facts constituting the offence with which the accused is proposed to be charged.
though it is desirable that the facts should be referred to in the sanction itself nonetheless if they do not appear on the face of it the prosecution must establish aliunde by evidence that those facts were placed before the sanctioning authorities.
the sanction that has been accorded is in the following terms 11th april 1966.
after fully and carefully examining the materials before it in regard to the said allegations and circumstances of the case consider that major som nath should be prosecuted in a court of law for the said offences.
now therefore the central govt both hereby accord sanction under section 197 code of criminal procedure act No 5 of 1898 and section 61a of the prevention of corruption act 1947 act ii of 1947 for the prosecution of maj.
by order and in the name of the president.
sd a p veera raghavan.
deputy secretary to the govt of india.
considered for the purposes of according sanction were a that the appellant as a public servant was entrusted with crops situated on the land acquired for the extension of air field sirsa b that by abusing his position as a public servant he allowed the standing crops to be cut from the said land.
c that by corrupt or illegal means and by abusing his position as a public servant he obtained pecuniary advantage of rs 2500 as the value of the crops to be cut from the land andor he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriated that sum by converting it into his own use instead of depositing the said sale price in the govt.
this question in turnwill depend upon what are the ingredients of the offences under 51c and d read with section 52.
under 51c a public servant is said to commit the offence of misconduct in the discharge of his duty if he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do and under d if he by corrupt or illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as a public servant obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage.
and gokulchand dwarkadas mordrka v the king 1948 indlaw pc 39.
bhagat ram s case was not concerned with the sanction but only with the question whether the offence could be altered to one of abetment of an offence of section 409 i p c from one under section 409 simpliciter.
but even so the offence with which the appellant is charged under section 51c does not necessarily involve an abetment with the person whom he had dishonestly allowed to cut and take away the crop.
even if it were so the sanction can not be held to be had on that account.
nor in their lordships view is a sanction given without reference to the facts constituting the offence a compliance with the actual terms of cl.
under that clause sanction has to be given to a prosecution for the contravention of any of the provision of the order.
a person could not be charged merely with the breach of a particular provision of the order he must be charged with the commission of certain acts which constitute a breach and it is to that prosecution that is for having done acts which constitution breach of the order that the sanction is required.
in the present case there is nothing on the face of the sanction and no extraneous evidence to show that the sanctioning authority knew the facts alleged to constitute a breach of the order and the sanction is invalid.
1957 indlaw sc 59 was also cited by the respondent s advocate in support of the contention that the trial of two offences requiring sanction was not valid.
a perusal of the sanction would show that the sanctioning authority had applied their mind to only one instance but the prosecution were seeking to make the sanction cover the offence of a habitual bribe taker which clearly implies that the sanctioning authorities must consider the number of instances when the accused took bribes and on what occasions as would justify a charge of his being a habitual bribe taker.
sinha j as he then was while dismissing the appeal observed at page 766.
the contention that a trial for two offences requiring sanction is wholly void where the sanction is granted for one offence and not for the other is in our opinion unsustainable.
section 61 of the act bars the jurisdiction of the court to take cognizance of an offence for which previous sanction is required and has not been given.
secondly the evidence that was necessary to unfold the story of the prosecution has not been produced by the prosecution but the trial court and the high court ignored this lacunas in the prosecution case.
before we deal with the contentions urged on behalf of the appellant it is necessary to have a clear picture of certain broad features of the case.
p w 14 ranadive tells us that if one were to go from the entrance of air field to the acquired land one would have to pass through rd 4500 to 1200.
according to p w 8 telu ram he acquired possession of the land of the length from rd 4500 to rd 1200 on 10th january 1963 and that tile possession of the acquired land was not delivered to him as it had not been acquired by that time.
exhibit do review report which is headed technical administration contract shows that the date of review was 9th february 1963.
that there was crop on the land is amply born out by a letter of the appellant dated 12th february 1963 addressed to mr g l nagpal sub divisional magistrate sirsa.
acquisition of land for sirsa airfield.
as you know.
even if exhibit dq gave a correct picture it could be in relation to the airstrip already in existence as this would be necessary for a contractor who is charged with duty to carry out extension work to go on the site collect materials and get everything ready to execute his contract.
a copy of this letter was sent to the garrison engineer the appellant.
the extension of the airstrip would mean that the existing airstrip is being extended so that the initial work can be started and continued on the existing airstrip.
this is further confirmed by a perusal of the letter written by the appellant to telu ram p w 8 in reply to his letter dated 28th february63 not produced that necessary possession of the runway and taxi track has already been given to you.
as otherwise there is no meaning in the appellant saying therein that it is desirable that entire proceedings with regard to acquisition of land and determining compensation for standing crops for the total area of 39 58 acres are finalised on the 13th february.
p 2 is a certified copy by the tehsildar dated 18 9 63 which shows that as per the girdawari on 20 3 63 crops were standing on the lands in the village ahmedpur acquired by the military authorities for sirsa 3 airfield construction the details of which were that the total land acquired for airfield 49 acres the land on which crops were standing in good condition 23 acres and the land on which crops were standing in damaged condition 7 acres and uncultivated land 19 acres.
this evidence however does not assist the accused.
at the most it shows that a small portion of the crops were cut but it is apparent that that has not been taken into account by the collector in assessing the value of the crop because it is on that day that crops were inspected for that purpose and subsequently the agricultural officer also had in his letter dated 18 2 63 which has been cited in the award exhibit p 26 intimated that on inspection the crops were found to be very good.
he may please be asked to complete this formality without any loss of time.
in reply the appellant states in his letter exhibit p 12 dated the 10th april.
no further action is required to be taken.
the trial court as well as the high court are in our view justified in holding that crops of sarson gram and lusan were standing on the land acquired by the military for extension of the aerodrome.
the whole of the previous statement however can not be treated as substantive evidence.
as already noticed is the letter of telu ram jain to the assistant garrison engineer and p 10 is the letter of telu ram jain to the garrison engineer.
both these related to possession of the acquired land not being given to him.
he was asked about telu ram s evidence and also that he had given possession of the land rd 1200 to rd 00 to the contractor after the crop had been cut.
the letter exhibit p 13 was also put to him and he was asked about the existence of the crops.
this statement is clearly false as it is against credible documentary evidence at a time when there was no possibility of any charge being levied against the appellant.
but when the prosecution relies upon the proof of exhibit p 24 as also to establish that there was standing crops on the land when the possession was delivered on 13 2 63 on certain witnesses who were present on the respective occasions.
we are therefore not impressed with this argument.
on a careful consideration of the evidence both oral and documentary it is established that the appellant who was in charge of the expansion work on the air strip was given possession of the land acquired for that purpose on 13 2 63 that there was standing thereon a bumper crop of sarson gram and lusan on that day that he was therefore entrusted with this crop that he postponed giving delivery of the land to the contractor till at any rate after the 23rd march 1963 and before the 6th april 1963 and that he allowed the crop to be cut and taken away without in any way accounting for it which shows that it was done dishonestly and raudulently.
appeal dismissed.
