this appeal is by special leave against the judgment and decree of the high court of kerala which dismissed an appeal against the judgment and decree of the subordinate court of havelikkara.
it was the appellant s case that he had been in occupation of the said 160 acres of cherikkal land unregistered dry lands in hilly tracts about which and the adjoining lands there was a dispute as to whether the same belonged to a jenmi family known as koodalvalli illom hereinafter called the illom or to the government of the erstwhile travancore state.
it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
it may be mentioned that in respect of the 160 acres of land of the illom which were occupied by the appellant s father and the appellant there was a dispute between the illom and the travancore state from about 1848.
a while the application for registration was pending the dispute between the illom and the state of travancore had reached a stage when the illom had to institute a suit o section No.
126 of 1096.
thereafter the suit filed by the illom was dismissed on 28 6 1109 february 10 1934.
an appeal against it was dismissed on september 27 1943.
112 of 1100 1925 a d as the suit of the illom had been finally disposed of and the title of the illom to the lands was not established the appellant apprehending that he might be ejected in the above l c case filed a suit.
o s 156 of 1103 m e 1927 28 a d in the district court at quilon against the respondent to establish his right and title to the said 160 acres and in the adjoining cherikkal lands in his possession.
in that suit an injunction was prayed for in respect of 100 acres of the property involved in the suit but the prayer was rejected.
112 of 11 00 m e an order was passed for dispossessing the appellant on july 24 1939 ext.
there were other allegations also but it is unnecessary for purposes of this appeal to refer to them.
in the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
on this issue it was held that no notice of forfeiture of trees.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
accordingly the high court found that at no time the occupation of the land by the appellant was under a bona fide claim of title.
in its view these words take in what is familiarly known in law as emblements which according to black s.
in this view it held that compensation for trees which are to be dealt with under the general law can not be decreed in favour of a mere trespasser who had no rights therein.
the learned advocate for the appellant has reiterated the submissions made before the trial court and the high court and contends that there is no order forfeiting the improvements as required under section 9 of the act and if section 9 does not apply and there is no right of forfeiture as contemplated under section 9 then the appellant is entitled to compensation under the general law.
apart from this contention towards the end of his argument the learned advocate for the appellant sought to make out a fresh case namely that as the appellant was not served with a notice to quit as required under section 9 of the act but was forcibly evicted without giving him an opportunity of cutting and taking away the trees etc.
this finding is fortified by section 5 of the act which provides that from and after the commencement of the act it shall not be lawful for any person to occupy land which is the property of the government whether poramboke or not without the permission from the government or such officer of the government as may be empowered in that behalf.
registration in his name on the basis that it was government land.
before dealing with this aspect we will first consider the question whether trees are included within the meaning of section 9 so as to entitle the appellant to a notice of forfeiture there under.
section 9 of the act is in the following terms any person unauthorised occupying any land for which he is liable to pay a fine under section 6 and an assessment or prohibitory assessment under section 7 may be summarily evicted by the division peishkar and any crop or other product raised on the land shall be liable to forfeiture and any building or other structure erected or anything deposited thereon shall also if not removed by him after such written notice as the division peishkar may deem reasonable be liable to forfeiture.
an eviction under this section shall be made in the following manner namely by serving a notice on a person reported to be in occupation or his agent requir ing him within such time as the division peishkar may deem reasonable after receipt of the said notice to vacate the land and if such notice is not obeyed by removing or deputing a subordinate to remove any person who may refuse to vacate the same and if the officer removing any such person shall be resisted or obstructed by any person the division peishkar shall hold a summary enquiry into the facts of the case and if satisfied that the resistance or obstruction still continues may issue a warrant for the arrest of the said person and on his appearance may send him with a warrant in the form of the schedule for imprisonment in the civil jail of the district for such period not exceeding 30 days as may be necessary to prevent the continuance of such obstruction or resistance provided that no person so committed or imprisoned under this section shall be liable to be prosecuted under sections 176 179 and 181 of the travancore penal code in respect of the same facts.
in these circumstances the question that would arise for determination is whether the trees come within the description of other product raised on the land.
but this is not relevant as what has to be considered is whether trees can be said to be other product raised on the land.
no doubt one of the meanings given in the black s law dictionary does say that in a more restricted sense the word is synonymous with fructus industrials.
even under this definition product can not mean anything which is attached to the land like trees.
notice of this trespass was given to the defendant.
it was contended that the defendant s action was justified under the statute ii g 2 c 19 section 8 which after enumerating certain crops empowered the landlord to seize as a distress any other product whatsoever which shall be growing on any part of the estate demised and therefore the trees and shrubs in question came within that description.
this vicarious and altruistic exhibition of good intention may even cause damage to the land of an owner who may not want improvements of such a kind as tree plantation.
that was a case in which the government had taken possession of the lands and had erected certain building on the land before a decision under section 6 of the land acquisition act was made as to the appellant s property arid it was contended that the appellant should be allowed the value of the land in the state in which it then was i e with buildings on it.
it appears that the government had resolved to acquire the land in question and other lands and by arrangement with certain of the sutidars it took possession of such land including a portion which was in the occupation of the appellant.
on these findings it was observed that the government were in a position by law at any rate to regularize their possession by such a notification a fact which becomes material when it has to be considered what the nature of the trespass is.
before the privy council it was contended on behalf of the appellant that in the various cases relied upon there was at least some genuine claim or belief in the party erecting the buildings that he had a title to do so even though he was eventually held to be a trespasser and it was urged that no such claim or belief existed in that case in which it was said the government without any pretence of a right tortuously invaded the appellant s property and proceeded to deal with it as their own.
in support of this contention he has referred us to the leadings contained in paragraph 3 of the plaint in which it is stated the improvements effected by the plaintiff have a value of rs 2 lakhs as per the accounts shown below.
but out of the said land 160 acres were taken out of my possession and given to the 2nd defendant even without giving me the opportunity to remove the movable improvements such as cultivation cattle machines utensils houses stocked crops ripe crops etc belonging to me.
as it has now been contended before us.
the issues that had been famed by the trial court also do not refer to this aspect.
p w 4 the manager was asked in cross examination whether he had been given any priorinformation or notice about eviction and this witness also said that there was no prior information or notice.
in the view we have taken the appeal has no substance and is accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs but the court fee will be recovered from the appellant.
appeal dismissed.
