tata consultant engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of tata sons limited.
it functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
out of 665 employees at bombay the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306 these workmen are members of the tata consultant employees union.
there was fierce competition also it was asserted from other similar organisations.
the appellant had introduced various pay scales in 1973 and some time later they were revised.
there was no separate dearness allowance until january1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
dearness allowance became payable at 10 of the basic wage subject to a minimum of rs 50 and house rent allowance at 30 of the basic salary.
revising the figures on that basis it computed the annual gross profits for the years 1968 to 1977 and determined the annual average at rs 26 69 lakhs.
the tribunal took note of the elaborate scales of wages already existing in the wage structure of the appellant and decided to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
it also observed that the category of draughtsmen needed a special increase.
but it rejected the demand of the union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant s financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
the tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
the revised wage scales the tribunal directed should take effect retrospectively from 1st january1976 it also laid down the principle enabling the actual fitment of the workmen in their respective wage scales as on that date and also provided for the number of increments to which they would be entitled having regard to the period of completed service.
however this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
the union prayed that the position may be clarified and the award corrected accordingly.
the same has been made clear in paragraph.
when the award is sent for publication a necessary corrigendum be made in the award and the aforesaid words after the figures rs 150 and rs 100 be added.
sd k n wani industrial tribunal.
considering the appeal of tata consulting engineers first the contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that having regard to the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal erred in making the wage scales retrospective and in any event in ranging the retrospectivity back to 1st january1976.
the charter of demands was presented by the union in july1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the state government made the reference to the industrial tribunal in 1975 the tribunal has referred to various considerations which prevailed with it in giving retrospectivity to the revised pay scales.
they are considerations which can not be ignored.
accordingly the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
december1978the union invoked the jurisdiction of the.
tribunal under rule 31 of the industrial disputes bombay rules1957 rule 31 provides the labour court tribunal or arbitrator may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any award it or he issues.
an accidental slip or omission implies that something was intended and contrary to that intention what should not have been included has been included or what should have been included has been omitted.
to answer the question it is necessary to examine the basis of the award and the intent which flows from that basis.
it is to the task of revising the pay scales that the tribunal addressed itself and throughout the material part of the award it is that task which held its focussed attention.
a clear statement of its intention is found in paragraph 22 of the award where the tribunal stated i only propose to modify the existing structures of the scales with flat increases in each category.
and that is confirmed by what was stated in paragraph 23 of the award considering this outgoing the flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draughtsman and rs 100 in the case of the other categories would be fair.
the comparative table of existing pay scales and the revised pay scales has been reproduced earlier.
considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
conspicuous by its absence is any reference to a flat increase in the pay of an individual workmen.
and the clinching circumstances of all is that the award was made on the basis that the overall financial load according to paragraph 33 of the award would be to the tune of about rs 5 lakhs.
in its order of 22nd.
december1978the tribunal has referred to the statement exhibit c 51 filed by the appellant when called upon to indicate the increased financial burden apprehended by it.
the tribunal has relied on this statement as evidence showing that the appellant knew that a flat increase of rs 150 and rs 100 was intended to each of the employees in the category of draughtsmen and the other categories.
on the basis that a sum of rs 150 per month was added to the pay of each draughtsman and a sum of rs 100 was added to the pay of every other workman who belonged to the union staff the financial load would increase to rs 922032  likewise if a flat increase of rs 100 was given to individual workmen of all categories including draughtsmen the increased financial load would total rs 764256  the statement then goes on to indicate that if a flat increase of rs 75 per month were given to individual workmen of all categories the total increase would be rs 578220  again if the flat increase is rs 65 per month to the individual workmen of all categories the additional load would total rs 497772  finally on the basis that the individual draughtsman would be given an increase of rs 75 per month and the individual workmen of other categories rs 50 per month the additional load was calculated at rs 463092  it will be noted that the statement exhibit c 51was prepared on the basis of the employees strength as in december1971 a similar statement was prepared on the basis of the employees strength as in september1978 these statements can not be regarded as evidence that the appellant was cognizant of the intention of the tribunal to provide a flat increase to the pay of each workman.
the addition was integrated as a feature of the wage scales it was not regarded as an addition to the pay of each individual workman.
it is wrong in principle it is said to provide a fixed dearness allowance.
reference was also made to bengal chemical pharmaceutical works limited v its workmen.
2 scr 113 1968 indlaw sc 183 now it is not a universal rule that the dearness allowance should in all cases be correlated with the cost of living index.
having regard to the not inconsiderable improvement in the level of the basic wage it observed that there would be a consequent increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
it declared that the cumulative effect of an improved wage structure together with dearness allowance operating on a slab system would throw an impossible burden of about rs 1 crore on the financial capacity of the appellant.
accordingly the appeal filed by the workmen must fail.
civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
chinnappa reddy j we have had the advantage of perusing the judgment prepared by our learned brother pathak j we agree with him that civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 should be dismissed.
the application was as follows in the above reference your honour was pleased to pass an award on 20th december1978.
the union therefore prays the honourable tribunal to clarify the position and correct the award accordingly.
this order was made in the presence of shri manak gagrat advocate for the company and shri n p mehta advocate for the workmen.
the endorsement made on the application by the advocate for the company does not indicate that the company had any objection to the award being corrected as sought by the employees union.
the primary and basic question considered by the industrial tribunal in making the award dated december 201978 was the question of revision of the wage scales.
nor can it be doubted that fitment into the revised pay scales is certainly a part of the revision of pay scales.
in the present case the industrial tribunal on a consideration of the material placed before it came to the conclusion that the company was in an undoubted position to bear the additional financial burden.
at the end of paragraph 15 of the award the tribunal stated but there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
at the end of paragraph 18 of the award the tribunal said a mere reading of exhibit u 15 will immediately dispel the misgivings about the future of the present company.
again in paragraph 19 it was said i have no doubt that the present company would be able to bear the additional burden for the years to come.
this is further borne out from the trading results of the company for the year 1968 69 to 1977 the profits have increased all along.
c 27 indicates the important projects the company was handling in india and abroad and the amount of foreign exchange earned and repatriated.
after expressing himself in categoric terms about the capacity of the company to bear the additional financial burden the tribunal went on to say i only propose to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
the tribunal then considered the question whether draftsmen should get a higher flat increase and the question whether the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be revised.
thereafter various other matters were considered and finally the tribunal revised the wage scales in the manner already mentioned by my brother pathak j the question of fitment was then considered in the following manner fitment if as on 1st january1976an employee is drawing a salary less than the beginning of the respective grade he should be first stepped up to the beginning of the grade.
after fixing the salary of the employees in the scales as above the employees should be given increments in the new scales as noted below i employees who have completed 5 years or more as on 1st january19763 increments.
all other employees with more than one year s service shall be given one increment.
since there was to be a flat increase of rs 150 and rs 100 in the case of draftsmen and other workmen respectively the revised wage scale had necessarily to commence with figures rs 150 and rs 100 above the existing wage scales.
as it has now turned out what the employees apparently suspected the employer might contend is precisely what the employer is not contending though the employer did not choose to so contend before the industrial tribunal itself when the employees filed the application for rectification.
the application before the tribunal was filed under rule 31 of the bombay industrial disputes rules 1957which is as follows.
a board court labour court tribunal or arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
in the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.
