in 1954there was wakfnama by the said sail nawaz jung.
andhra pradesh requested for the requisition of the property named as sail gulshan with a vast extent of land and palaces with roads and surrounded by a compound wail measuring 19 acres and 10 guntas situated in the heart of hyderabad city near sarojini devi hospital.
he had claimed rights as a tenant during the requisition.
tenancy and agricultural lands act1950 being.
act no xxi of 1950.
s 2r states that the expression protected means a person who is deemed to be a protected tenant under the provisions of the said act.
chapter iv of the andhra pradesh act deals with protected tenants and s 34 of the said act provides who is to be considered as a protected tenant and uses the expression that a person shall subject to the provisions of sub ss 2 and 3be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of the land if he has fulfilled the conditions mentioned in clauses a and b of sub s 1 of s 34 of the said act.
sub s 2 of s 35 stipulates that a declaration by the tahsildar that the person is deemed to be a protected tenant or in the event of an appeal from the tahsildar s decision such declaration by the collector on first appeal or by the board of revenue on second appeal shall be conclusive that such person is a protected tenant and his rights as such shall be recorded in the record of right of where there is no record of rights in such village record as may be prescribed.
sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides that if a protected tenant dies without leaving any heirs all his rights shall be so extinguished.
the explanation to sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides who should be deemed to be the heirs of a protected tenant.
it is necessary also to note the provisions of s 99 of the act.
it is as follows 99 bar of jurisdiction 1.
no civil court shall have jurisdiction to settle decide or deal with any question which is by or under this act required to be settled decided or dealt with by the tahsildar tribunal or collector or by the board of revenue or government.
it is relevant at this stage to refer to certain provisions of the central act to consider the controversy involved in this appeal the central act was enacted giving power for requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property for union purposes.
s 9 deals with the payment of compensation and provides that the amount of compensation payable under an award shall subject to any rules made under that act be paid by a competent authority to the person or persons entitled thereto in such manner and within such time as may be specified in the award.
suspecting that the entry in the protected tenancy register might not be genuine on or about 24th of october1970 the tahsildar passed an order cancelling that entry.
sd tahsildar.
hyderabad west taluk.
1the learned single judge vaidya j held inter alia as follows whether the petitioner abdul khader is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the suit property are matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the central act.
the learned judge observed inter alia as follows i am told by the counsel for both the parties that the lands in question were already acquired for military purpose under the requisition and acquisition of immovable property act1952 and that sri m s sharma the additional chief judge city civil court hyderabad has already been appointed as arbitrator under the act for determining the compensation and the persons entitled to it.
claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator claim petition was also filed by abdul khader claiming 60 of compensation as a protected tenant.
there was an award by the arbitrator holding that as this court had left it open to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant.
despite the objection exercising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question of protected tenant the arbitrator held that abdul khader was a protected tenant.
aggrieved by the aforesaid award the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the high court.
in the meantime abdul khader filed an application on or about 21st of october1984 for adducing additional evidence to mark kaulnama dated 2nd of december1950 for the first time and oubuliatnama dated 2nd december1950 as exhibits in deciding the protected tenancy rights.
appointed advocate commissioner to record additional evidence.
the appellant filed the objection reserving the right of raising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant in the light of the act 21 of 1950 three civil appeals were filed before this court against the order of the high court on 15th may1985 this court passed the order on 19th august1985 the said order is important and reads as follows special leave are granted.
dr chitale learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the high court should be directed to consider the issues relating to the jurisdiction of the arbitrator appointed and functioning under the requisitioning and acquisition of immovable property act195 i to decide whether a person is protected tenant of an agricultural land or not in the light of ss 99 and 102 of the andhra pradesh telangana area.
tenancy and agricultural land act1950 we have heard the learned counsel for the respondents on the above question.
after giving our due consideration to the question we are of the view that the high court should determine this question.
other c m ps were filed for clarification of the second part of the order dated 19th august1985 and this court on 29th november1985 in cmps.
the high court dealt with the value of the land.
a i r 1985 s c 1576 1985 indlaw sc 246 on the question of solarium and interest on the amount awarded.
we are also not concerned with this aspect of the matter inasmuch as the same is the subject matter of another appeal being civil appeal no 4406 of 1986.
we are concerned in this appeal with the right of abdul khader.
kowlnama executed in favour of shaik hussain was not filed.
the kowlnama executed in favour of the son mohd.
abdul khader on december 31950 was filed and was marked as exhibit c 1 the document recited permitted to utilise garden fruits flowers and mango.
fruits.
the land was taken possession of under a panchanama dated 12th of september1963 according to the high court the documents discussed in the judgment indicated that shaik hussain was a tenant from 1935 after his death on july 181949his son mohd abdul khader became a tenant.
in this background the court addressed itself to the question whether abdul khader was a protected tenant or not entitled to 60 of the compensation.
the high court was of the view that there was surfeit of evidence prior to the commencement of the andhra pradesh act that shaik hussain was a tenant of the land.
a that abdul khader because he was a tenant between january1942 to january1948 for six years therefore was a protected tenant under sub cl ii of cl 1 of s 34 of the andhra pradesh act b that abdul khader held the land from october1943 to october1949therefore was a protected tenant of sail gulshan under sub cl iii of cl 1 of s 34 of act 21 of 1950 in these circumstances the high court held that adbul khader was entitled to 60 of the compensation paid.
aggrieved by the aforesaid decision the appellants being the successor of the owner of the land in question is in appeal before us.
he had claimed rights of a protected tenant.
the two orders of this court as we have mentioned hereinbefore dated 30th of january1975 and 19th of august 1985 reiterated the position that it was for the arbitrator to decide the question and he should decide the question in the light of ss 99 and 102 of the andhra pradesh act as set out hereinbefore.
according to the appellant inasmuch as whether abdul khader was a protected tenant had not to be settled by the collector or the tribunal the arbitrator and the high court were in error in going to that question.
by the scheme of the central act compensation was payable to persons who had interest in the land acquired.
determination by the revenue authorities and non determination is not conclusive or decisive.
therefore it was submitted by the respondents that s 99 of the andhra pradesh act which made the determination by the tahsildar to be final and debarred other courts from going into the question did not apply in case of compensation payable.
we are of the opinion that the high court was not in error in so holding.
the high court has so held.
this court by the two orders referred to hereinbefore had also affirmed this position.
furthermore under s 99 of the andhra pradesh act the bar was not against the arbitrator but against a civil court.
appeal dismissed.
