he made representation to the additional chief engineer for cancelling his transfer order on the ground that his mother aged 70 years was ailing and it would cause great inconvenience to him if he was required to join at ukai.
his representation was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
the learned single judge granted a declaration in respondent s favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back wages.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants but it allowed the respondent s appeal.
after hearing learned counsel for the parties we were satisfied that the learned single judge as well as the division bench both had committed error in allowing the writ petition and granting relief to the respondent.
the hearing was adjourned to enable sh.
we refused to hear the counsel as we had already completed hearing.
we refused to accede to his request as oral heating had already been completed and the matter had been adjourned only to enable the respondent s counsel to obtain instructions.
however in the interest of justice we permitted the respondent to file written submissions if any in support of his case.
since this was unusual uncalled for and unjustified request we ignored the same and reserved the order.
the opportunity granted to the respondent has however been misused by raising mischievous and frivolous objections instead of filing written submissions.
no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place.
if the order of transfer is not stayed modified or cancelled the concerned public servant must carry out the order of transfer.
but he did not join at ukai till the impugned order of discharge was issued on may 271974 the.
chief engineer who discharged the respondent s services exercised his power under service regulation no 113which runs as under 113 the continued absence from duty or overstay m spite of warning to return to duty shall render the employee liable to summarily discharge from service without the necessity of proceedings under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
regulation 113 confers wide powers on the authorities to summarily discharge an employee from service if he continues to be absent from duty in an unauthorised manner and refuses to join his duty even after warning.
before this power is exercised two conditions must be satisfied firstly the employee must be found to be absent from duty without leave or overstaying the period of sanctioned leave and secondly he failed to join his duty even after a warning.
the object and purpose of giving warning is to remind the delinquent employee that if he continues to be absent from duty he would be liable to action under regulation 113 and to afford him an opportunity to make amends by joining his duty.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
dated 18th april1974.
sub transfer from surat to ukai.
there is no dispute that the respondent received the aforesaid letter as he sent a reply to the superintending engineer on april 201974a copy of which was annexed as annexure j by the petitioner to his petition before the high court.
the establishment officer p of the board also informed the respondent by his letter dated may 61974 that his representation against the order of transfer was not accepted and he was directed to obey the order of transfer.
a copy of the letter filed by the petitioner himself as annexure k to the writ petition in the high court.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
ultimately the chief engineer of the board took action against the respondent and discharged him from service with effect from 31 3 1974 by his letter dated may 271974.
in fact the superintending engineer had by his letter dated 18th april1974 clearly reminded the respondent that his unauthorised absence was in breach of service regulation no 113 and called upon to show cause why action should not be taken against him but in spite of these letters the respondent failed to join his duties.
a warning need not be in any particular form.
the respondent s case was that no such registered letter was tendered to him by the postman nor he ever refused to accept the same.
firstly even if the letter dated 24 4 1974 was not served on the respondent there is no dispute that the superintending engineer s letter dated 18th april1974 had been served on him.
it was further pleaded that the respondent had refused to accept the registered letter and the same had been returned back by the postal authorities with an endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
in his rejoinder affidavit the respondent denied the aforesaid allegations and asserted that the letter was not tendered to him and he never refused to accept the registered cover and the postal endorsement was wrong and incorrect.
apart from denying the postal endorsement the respondent placed no material before the court in support of his pleading.
in this view we are of the opinion that the division bench was totally wrong in holding that no opportunity was afforded to the respondent to meet the case set up by the board that the letter dated 24 4 1974 was served on the respondent.
there is presumption of service of a letter sent under registered cover if the same is returned back with a postal endorsement that the addressee refused to accept the same.
consequently the service was complete and the view taken by the high court is incorrect.
the respondent acted in an irresponsible manner in not complying with the order of transfer which led to his discharge from service in accordance with the service regulation.
no 113 the learned single judge as well as the division bench both erred in law in setting aside the order of discharge.
there would be no order as to costs.
appeal allowed.
