defendants 1 and 2 for redemption of suit properties which were mortgaged as security for certain monies borrowed by the plaintiff from defendant l under two deeds of mortgage executed in the year 1961.
that suit was resisted by the defendants each of them having filed separate written statements which in sub stance did not differ from each other.
the civil court notwithstanding the defence of the defendants taken in their written statements that the suit had to be stayed for obtaining the finding on their claim of tenancy under the bt al act framed the issues in the suit on the basis of the pleadings of the parties and after trial recorded its findings thereon.
a learned single judge of the high court who heard the second appeal while upheld the concurrent findings of the courts below that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties in favour of defendant l were mortgages by conditional sale and the defendants had failed to prove that there was sale of the suit properties in their favour subsequent to the coming into existence of the said mortgages found that the defendants had raised in their written statements the plea that they were tenants not only prior to the date of suit but also at the time of the filing of the suit and having regard to that plea the suit ought to have been stayed by the civil court and the issue of tenancy should have been referred to the mamlatdar for obtaining a finding from him thereon both under section 85 a of the bt.
no controversy is raised in this appeal as regards the findings of the civil court that the deeds of mortgage executed by the plaintiff in respect of the suit properties were mortgages by conditional sale.
however the arguments addressed before us on behalf of the plaintiff appellant in support of the appeal by learned senior counsel mr s k dholakia were these that defendant l respondent l although was in possession of the suit properties.
agricultural lands at the time of execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour because of the coming into existence of such mortgages there occurred merger of lease hold rights of defendant l in suit properties when he obtained those properties as mortgage security under the said mortgages and as a consequence he became a mortgagee in possession of those properties.
according 10 him a mortgagee in possession being a person who can not be deemed to be a tenant under section 4 of the bt al act it was not open to the defendants to claim that they were the tenants of suit properties and if that be so question of raising issue of tenancy by the civil court in the suit before it did not arise at all nor was it necessary to refer such issue to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bt al act and stay the suit till receipt of the finding on such issue as was directed by the high court in its judgment under appeal.
according to him when the plaintiff had not admitted that the defendants were tenants of the suit properties it was not open to the defendants to force the plaintiff who had a right to choose his forum to file a suit to go before another forum on the plea that jurisdiction lay before another forum that is mamlatdar.
in this regard support was sought from the decision of this court in raizada topandas and another v m s gorakhram gokalchand 1963 indlaw sc.
379 he therefore urged that the high court was not justified in upsetting the concurrent finding of the trial court and the appellate court that the defendants failed to prove their tenancy and remanding the case to the trial court directing it to refer the issue of tenancy to the mamlatdar and stay the suit till the receipt of the finding in that regard from the mamlatdar and then dispose of the suit.
hence the judgment and order of the high court according to him was liable to be interfered with and set aside.
2 when a plea of tenancy is raised with regard to suit property an agricultural land by a defendant who claims to be a tenant of such property under the bt al act and seeks a reference of that issue by the civil court to the mamlatdar under that act for obtaining a finding thereon can the civil court decide such issue by itself and proceed to decide the suit on the basis of the finding thereon.
bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948.
4 a person lawfully cultivating any land belonging to another person shall be deemed to be a tenant if such land is not cultivated personally by the owner and if such person is not a a member of the owner s family or b a servant on wages payable in cash or kind but not in crop share or a hired labourer cultivating the land under the personal supervision of the owner or any member of the owner s family or c a mortgagee in possession.
2 no order of the mamlatdar the tribunal the collector or the maharashtra revenue tribunal or the state government made under this act shall be questioned in any civil or criminal court.
85a 1 if any suit instituted in any civil court involves any issues which are required to be settled decided or dealt with by any authority competent to settle decide or deal with such issues under this act hereinafter referred to as the competent authority.
2 on receipt of such reference from the civil court the competent authority shall deal with and decide such issues in accordance with the provisions of this act and shall communicate its decision to the civil court and such court shall thereupon dispose of the suit in accordance with the procedure applicable thereto.
section 85a as it came into force after it was amended by gujarat act no 5 of 1973 w e f 3rd march1973.
85a i.
we shall now proceed to deal with the aforesaid questions.
interests of the lessee and the lessor in the whole of the property become vested at the same time in one person in the same right because of section 11 ld of the t p act.
what is enunciated in section 111 d of the t p act can not be doubted is the doctrine of merger.
merger takes place when a lesser estate is merged or drowned in a greater estate.
in the present case as has already been pointed out by us the plaintiff appellant did not claim that the defendants or any of them were in possession of the suit properties as tenants and there was a surrender by them of the possession either expressly or impliedly as would make the court to come to the conclusion that the possession of the suit properties with the defendants was surrendered by them pursuant to the mortgage by conditional sale executed in their favour.
if that be the position there can be no bar for the defendants to claim the right to continue in possession of the suit properties as tenants under the bt.
al act even if the plaintiff could obtain a decree for redemption of the suit properties which relief was sought in the suit.
secondly this court held that the appellant was not entitled to retain after redemption possession of the mortgage property by reason of his previous right to be in its possession as a tenant.
in the case of a lease the estate that is in the lessor is a reversion.
coming to g appalaswamy case 1984 indlaw sc 314 supra which considered the question whether a sitting tenant who took property by a possessory or usufructuary mortgage in his favour was liable to deliver physical possession upon redemption to the mortgagor.
accordingly there can not be a merger of a lease and a mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
even if the rights of the lessee and the rights of the mortgagee in respect of a property were to be united in one person the reversion in regard to the lease and the equity of redemption in regard to the mortgage would be outstanding in the owner of the property and accordingly there would not be a complete fusion of all the rights of ownership in one person.
question 2.
bombay had exclusive jurisdiction in dealing with the suit out of which the appeal had arisen.
pursuant to the said agreement the respondent had allowed the appellants their family members servants and agents to visit the shop only for the purpose of looking after the business of commission agency.
if he frames his suit in a manner not warranted by the facts and goes for his relief to a court which can not grant him relief on the true facts he will have his suit dismissed.
by referring to the material portion of section 28 of the rents control act the argument made on behalf of the appellants was found by this court to be untenable by stating thus we do not think that the section says or intends to say that the plea of the defendant will determine or change the forum.
furthermore section 85a as it stood prior to its amendment by gujarat amendment act no 5 in the year 1973 and as stands thereafter requires that if any suit instituted in civil court involves the question of tenancy of present or pastas the case may be the same being required to be decided or dealt with by an authority competent under the bt al act the civil court has to stay the suit and refer the issue to such competent authority for determination and after receiving the decision thereon to dispose of the suit in accordance with such decision.
appeal dismissed.
