by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.
an agreement dated december 201976 was entered into between the appellant as registered user and the respondent in respect of 12 trade marks for a period of 5 years.
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
by proceedings dated june 131984the registrar of trade marks informed the appellant that the registered user s applications were abandoned since the appellant failed to comply with the statutory requirements.
after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
the expression therefore should not be restricted to user by the proprietor himself or any registered user but should also take into account bona fide authorized user.
non registration of the user agreement by sen raleigh and the appellant was due to the default of the latter.
thus this appeal by special leave.
the respondents admittedly did not use the same.
the appellant can not be said to be either the proprietor of the trade mark since 1976since the agreement lapsed or permitted user  the high court therefore was wrong in holding that 5 years period had not lapsed.
the harmonious construction should be put up in such a way that s 482 and s 466 by of the act could be permitted to have their full play in their operational structure.
on the other hand it is for the respondent to prove the same.
he further contended that the special circumstances enumerated in sub s 3 of s 46 must be such that the respondents had intended to use the registered trade mark.
in the absence of such a findings the high court was wrong in law in refusing to rectify the trade mark and striking it off the register.
according to the learned counsel the respondents have collaboration agreement with sen raleigh which was taken over by the government under idr act and the appellant came to manufacture with the technical know how supplied by the respondents the raleigh bicycles under the trade mark registered by the respondents in the register of the registrar under the act.
the appellant was using the same as an agent.
admitted position is that the respondent being the registered proprietor until it is proved that its trade mark was not used to pass off the goods manufactured by the appellant and that the appellant had discontinued the user and 5 years lapsed thereafter the non use of the trade mark continues thereafter the rectification application u s 46 1b would be ordered.
in view of the prohibition to import bicycles the respondent was prevented to use the trade mark but by collaboration agreement it was continuing to use the trade mark by the permitted user.
the discretion exercised by the court must be judged in the light of the facts and circumstances the appellant having used the trade mark it does not lie in the mouth of the appellant to contend that he is not a permitted user or a bona fide user of the trade mark.
in view of the diverse contentions the question arises whether the high court was right in refusing to rectify and strike off the trade marks of the respondents from the register of trade marks.
46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1.
sub s 3 envisages that an application shall not be entitled to rely for the purpose of clause b of sub s 1 or for purpose of sub s 2 on any non use of a trade mark which is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade and not to any intention to abandon or not to use the trade mark in relation to the goods to which the application relates.
s 48 1 envisages that subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as a registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as defensive trade mark.
the court would not lend assistance to such registered proprietors of the trade mark.
it is a question of fact in every case.
it was therefore not a case of getting the trade mark registered under the predecessor act and continuing under the act for trafficking of the trade mark.
it is true that u s 431 either the registered proprietor or a permitted person is required to register as permitted user.
it must therefore be held that though the deemed presumption under sub s 2 of s 48 is referable to the permitted user or the registered user and it does not extend to unregistered permitted user the connecting link of passing off the goods between the licensor s trade mark and the lincesee should bona fide be with the permission or consent which may be express or implied by long course of dealings.
the appellant must be presumed by course of conduct that he is a bona fide user for the purpose of s 461b.
in k r beri and co vs.
co pvt limited and anr.
air 1980 delhi 299 1980 indlaw del 180the division bench construed s 482 and held that an unregistered user of the trade mark even with the consent of the proprietor can not be construed to be a registered user u s 481 and such construction renders sub s 2 of s 48 surplus age or otios which is impermissible by statutory construction.
although the special circumstances of trade taken by themselves would have prevented the use of the trade mark.
if the non user was in fact due to some other circumstances and would have occured whether the circumstances had followed or not subs 3 would not apply.
though there was a ban on impart of the raleigh cycles manufactured outside india and passed off under the registered mark of the respondents as a registered proprietor the circumstances do not attracted sub section 3 of s 46 to relieve the respondents to establish non user but on the facts of this case we have the admitted position that sen raleigh admittedly was a registered user through which the appellant had bona fide used the registered trade mark of the registered proprietor there is no discontinuance or non use of the trade mark by the respondent to establish the special circumstances in this case.
suffice it to hold that subs 3 of s 46.
it is true that while exercising discretion the court u s 46 of the act should take into consideration not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest in para 21 82 at page 386 of the law of trade marks and passing off by p narayanan 4th ed it is stated that the court or the registrar has discretion in granting or refusing an application for rectification.
it is not relevant for the purpose of s 461b whether the bicycles were manufactured with the assistance of technical know how passed on by sen raleigh or the permitted user.
suffice it to state that the appellant as a fact had used the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles manufactured by it.
we are also not persuaded to take a different view from that of the high court.
in these circumstances we are of the view that the high court has properly exercised its discretion and refused to rectify and strike off the trade mark from the register of trade marks of the registrar.
