a suit for partition was filed by one of the co sharers of said sarkar family in the high court of calcutta on 3 9 1955which was registered as suit no 2539 of 1955 the schedule of properties included the disputed nalban fishery.
a learned single judge of the calcutta high court passed a preliminary decree in the said suit on 11 8 1960 one of the co sharers of the sarkar family preferred an appeal against the preliminary decree before the division bench which was registered as appeal no200 of 1960 during the pendency of the aforesaid appeal the state of west.
bengal requisitioned large extent of fisheries including the disputed nalban fishery on 5 11 1969 in exercise of power under section 31 of the west bengal land requisition and acquisition act of 1948 hereinafter referred to as the requisition act pursuant to the aforesaid requisition order the state of west bengal took possession of the nalban fishery on 8 11 1969 members of the sarkar family challenged the order of requisition by filing a writ petition in calcutta high court in november1969 which was registered as civil rule no 7317 w of 1969 the aforesaid writ petition was dismissed by the learned single judge.
this court further ordered we again wish to re emphasize that the terms of the decree shall not effect the rights of the state of west bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they have vested in state under the provisions of the west bengal estate acquisition act of 1953 act x of 1954.
prior to the passing of the aforesaid order on april 181979 while granting special leave petition on 10 11 1978 this court had directed that the state of west bengal will be made a party to the proceeding and further the collector parganas was appointed as receiver in respect of the fisheries owned by the sarkar family.
bengal was in fact in possession of the said fishery.
mr harish salve the learned senior counsel for the state of west bengal.
bengal contended that the state being the owner of nalban fishery and having vested the management and control thereof with the state fishery development corporation and the said corporation having decided to use the tank fishery for a boating complex and the bansilal farms being the highest bidder and having been granted the right to have a boating complex therein and he having invested a huge sum of money his rights can not be taken away in the dispute between the state and the sarkar family.
he further contended that nalban fishery having been vested in the state of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal acquisition act1955the state can not get rid of the direction given by the supreme court to the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree and the nalban fishery being one such fishery the possession thereof was required to be given to the person in whose favour the said fishery has been allotted and therefore the learned single judge as well as the division bench in appeal have rightly issued the directions.
gupta also contended that the order of the high court of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 23 9 1980 directing the receiver to allow m s ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots and thereafter carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect thereof has become final the same not having been challenged by the state of west.
bengal and therefore it would not be open for the said state in application for execution of the decree to raise the question of vesting of the nalban fishery with the state and the court would not interfere with the direction given by the learned single judge and division bench of the calcutta high court.
gupta contended that the validity of the said act has been challenged and is pending before the calcutta high court an interim order has been passed in the said proceeding and therefore until that matter is decided it can not be said.
in this connection he had further urged that this question had not been raised before the high court.
bengal.
the nalban fishery was one of the items of property in the suit for partition is not disputed.
the suit ultimately no doubt was disposed of on the basis of a compromise arrived at between the parties but the court took sufficient care in disposing of the appeals on the terms of compromise by observing that the state has substantial interest with regard to fisheries rights covered by the litigation and nothing in the decree will not affect the rights of the state of west.
bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they are vested in the state under the provisions of west bengal estates acquisition act1953.
it would be appropriate at this stage to extract this part of the decree passed by this court in view of the foregoing we again wish to re emphasize that the terms the decree shall not affect the rights of the state of west bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they have vested in the state under the provisions of the west bengal estates acquisition act1953 act x of 1954.
further while directing the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree this court also protected the interest of the state by observing we made it quite clear that this will not in any manner prejudice or affect the right of the state to its claim over the fisheries under the west bengal acquisition act 1955 west bengal act 1 of 1954 or under any other statute.
it is an undisputed fact that nalban fishery had been requisitioned much prior to the aforesaid decree of this court dated 18 4 1979 and therefore the rights of the state to the fishery either by virtue of the requisition order or by virtue of any provision of any other statute remained protected and as such said state of west.
bengal ca nt be bound down by the so called allotment of fisheries in favour of some members of the sarkar family under the compromise decree in question.
as has been stated earlier the possession which was taken by the earlier receiver was a symbolical one and factually the state had not been divested of its possession which it took on 8 11 1969 in our considered opinion the succeeding receiver rightly took into account the directions of this court passed on 18 4 1979 and 24 4 1979 and rightly took the view that the rights and interest of the state in relation to nalban fishery is not affected in any manner by the so called allotment of the fishery in the partition decree amongst the members of the sarkar family.
from the order in question which has been annexed as annexure p to the special leave petition c no 13314 of 1992it appears that the order was passed on the application on one of the members of sarkar family mr pulak sarkar.
after such demarcation is made the commissioner of partition is directed to approve the same and carry out the direction of the honble supreme court in respect thereof.
does not in any way take away rights of the state of west.
bengal which is otherwise protected by the supreme court while passing the compromise decree.
by virtue of the extended definition of land in section 2 7 and the amended provisions of section 3a of the land reforms act tank fishery like nalban fishery come within the definition of and it vests in the state by operation of section 31 read with section 14.
it is no doubt true that a writ petition has been filed challenging the validity of the aforesaid act and notification issued there under in relation to vary nalban fishery which is still pending and therefore it would not be proper for us to examine the provisions of the emended west bengal land reforms act and to express any opinion thereon.
