the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.
in any event before withdrawal of the benefits no opportunity of hearing was granted.
the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
the appellants only made representation to government subsequently claiming exemption at par with the cooperative and public sector mills.
as there was no inducement or assurance the question of any promissory estoppel did not arise.
so far as legitimate expectation aspect is concerned it is too well known that the benefit extended can be withdrawn and with this knowledge if the units are set up the principle of legitimate expectation does not apply.
the respondents have established their units prior to the government orders granting the subsidy and they have no vested right to claim exemption.
no prejudice is caused to the respondents since the scheme was interested to make the units viable and the modified scheme provides for safeguards to that extent.
the order granting subsidy can be withdrawn in public interest.
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.
the doctrine of promissory estoppel has assumed importance in recent years though it was dimly noticed in some of the earlier cases.
the leading case on the subject is central london property trust ltd v high trees house ltd 1947 1 k b 130.
but that principle does not create any cause of action which did not exist before so that where a promise is made which is not supported by any consideration the promise can not bring an action on the basis of that promise.
the principle enunciated in the high trees case supra was also recognized by the house of lords in tool metal manufacturing co ltd v tungsten electric co ltd 1955.
all e r 657 1955 1 w l r 761.
doctrine of promissory estoppel has been envolved by the courts on the principles of equity to avoid injustice.
promissory estoppel is defined in black s law distionary as an estoppel which arises when there is a promise which promissor should reasonable expect to induce action or forbearance of a definite and substantial character on the part of promisee and which does include such action or forbearance and such promise is binding if injustice can be avoided only by enforcement of promise.
dixon j an australian jurists in grundt v great boulder gold mines prorietary ltd 1939 59 clr 641 aust laid down as under it is often said simply that the party asserting the estoppel must have been induced to act to his detriment.
although substantially such a statement is correct and leads to no misunderstanding it does not bring out clearly the basal purpose of the doctrine.
1995 1 scc 274 1994 indlaw sc 2183.
a person may have a legitimate expectation of being treated in a certain way by an administrative authority even though he has no legal right in private law to receive such treatment.
it is generally agreed that legitimate expectation gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation to be confined mostly to right to a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken.
see union of india and others.
while the discretion to change the policy in exercise of the executive power when not trammelled by any statute or rule is wide enough what is imperative and implicit in terms of article 14 is that a change in policy must be made fairly and should not give impression that it was so done arbitrarily or by any ulterior criteria.
actions are amenable in the panorama of judicial review only to the extent that the state must act validity for discernible reasons not whimsically for any ulterior purpose.
a question whether the impugned action is arbitrary or not is to be ultimately answered on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
a basic and obvious test to apply in such cases is to see whether there is any discernible principle emerging from the impugned action and if so does if really satisfy the test of reasonableness.
that is and ought to be a difficult onus for an applicant to discharge.
the courts are not very good at formulating or evaluating policy.
sometimes when the courts have intervened on policy grounds the court s view of the range of policies open under the statute or of what is unreasonable policy has not got public acceptance.
the reasonableness in administrative law must therefore distinguish between proper course and improper abuse of power.
the point to note is that the thing is not unreasonable in the legal sense merely because the court thinks it to be unwise.
as was observed in punjab communications ltd v union of india of others air 1999 sc 1801 1999 indlaw sc 1548 the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on wednesbury reasonableness.
a claim based on merely legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right.
for legal purposes expectation is not same as anticipation.
as observed in attorney general for new south wale v quinn 1990 64 australian ljr 327 to strike the exercise of administrative power solely on the ground of avoiding the disappointment of the legitimate expectations of an individual would be to set the courts adrift on a featureless sea of pragmatism.
as noted above the ultimate test is whether on the touchstone of reasonableness the policy decision comes out unscathed.
a restriction can not be said to be unreasonable merely because in a given case it operates harshly.
sc 9011960 indlaw sc 472 shree meenakshi mills ltd v union of india air 1974.
article 166 of the constitution deals with the conduct of government business.
conduct of business of the government of a state 1 all executive action of the government of a state shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the governor.
2 orders and other instruments made and executed in the name of the governor shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in rules to be made by the governor and the validity of an order or instrument which is so authenticated shall not be called in question on the ground that it is not an order or instrument made or executed by the governor.
a constitution bench in r chitralekha etc.
v state of mysore and ors.
air 1964.
clause 1 does not prescribe how an executive action of the government is to be performed it only prescribes the mode under which such act is to be expressed.
whether there is any government order in terms of article 166 has to be adjudicated from the factual background of each case.
similar view was expressed in m s pawan alloys and casting pvt ltd meerut etc.
v shree durga oil mills and anr.
1999 1 scc 573 1997 indlaw sc 1219 it was further held that the government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.
in view of the factual position recorded by the high court that at the point of time the appellants units were set up and the commercial production started there was no assurance or promise.
the question of legitimate expectation arises according to the appellants after the benefits were granted by the concerned g o ms.
at this juncture we would like to take note to certain factual positions highlighted by the appellants which are practically undisputed by the respondents.
as noted above no specific grounds or reasons were indicated to justify the withdrawal in the affidavits filed before the tribunal or the high court as the case may be.
as the correctness of factual basis justifying withdrawal is in issue fair play certainly warranted grant of opportunity to the appellants to present its side of the picture.
further a definite plea was taken that there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal of benefit by an executive order.
above being the position decision of the high court by placing reliance on the files to hold that the withdrawal was justified is not tenable in law and in the fitness of things the high court should hear the matter afresh and taken decision on those two issues.
we direct that the state government if it so chooses shall file its further counter affidavits before the high court within six weeks from today indicating the reasons which warranted the withdrawal of the benefits extended.
another point which was specifically raised before the high court but has not been dealt by it is the legality of the action in directing retrospective withdrawal of the benefit by a letter of the government.
whether the same is permissible in law has to be decided by the high court.
appeals disposed of.
