background facts.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
the labour court on the basis of the materials produced before it arrived at the following findings 1.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
work has been taken by the respondent from all the appellants except four.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
the salary fixed by the commissioner was earlier given to all engineers and later on they were given the salary fixed by the collector.
aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award the respondent authority herein filed a writ petition before the madhya pradesh high court indore bench which was marked as writ petition no 1188 of 1997.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
high court judgment.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
the vacancies according to the learned counsel need not be permanent ones.
the learned counsel would submit that the sufficient materials were brought on records to show that vacancies were available and as the appellants worked for a period of more than six months they became permanent employees in terms of the act.
as regard the claim of equal pay for equal work the learned counsel would urge that the high court has failed to consider the same in its true perspective.
sd c e o 23 10 91.
drawing our attention also to the pleadings as also the reliefs claimed for by the appellants before the labour court the learned counsel would contend that no contention was raised therein by the appellants as regard their entitlement of permanency in terms of the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
2 of the standard standing order reads as under 2.
classification of employees.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
12 of the constitution of india.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
the proviso appended to section 47 of the adhiniyam further mandates that no post shall be created in any authority without the prior sanction of the state government.
concededly the respondent authority before making any appointment neither intimated the employment exchange about the existing vacancies if any nor issued any advertisement in relation thereto.
the question therefore which arises for consideration is as to whether they could lay a valid claim for regularization of their services.
the answer thereto must be rendered in negative.
regularisation can not be claimed as a matter of right.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
all actions of the state must conform to the constitutional requirements.
a daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.
ajay kumar 1997 4 scc 88 1997 indlaw sc 833 jawaharlal nehru krishi viswa vidyalaya jabalpur m p vs.
bal kishan soni and others 1997 5 scc 86 1997 indlaw sc 928.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
yet recently in pankaj gupta ors etc.
vs state of jammu kshmir ors.
case law relied upon by the appellant.
in dr a k jain and others etc.
1987 indlaw sc 28778 this court did not lay down any law.
however having regard to the facts and circumstances of the said case some directions were issued presumably in terms of article 142 of the constitution.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
the said decisions thus are of no assistance in this case.
application of the act and the rules.
1 continue in force as if they were made under this act.
the terms of conditions of service contained in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules are not in derogation of the provisions contained in schedule appended to the 1961 act.
it is accepted that no appointment letter was issued in favour of the appellants.
who made the appointments of the appellants to the project or other works carried on by the authority is not known.
we have noticed hereinbefore that in the case of om prakash mondloi the ceo made an endorsement to the effect that he may be tried in daily wages and should be entrusted with the work of progress collection of oda work.
the so called seniority list which is contained in annexure p 27 whereupon strong reliance has been placed by dr dhawan merely itself goes to show that it was prepared in respect of office muster employees.
the recruitments of the appellants do not fall in any of the said categories.
with a view to become eligible to be considered as a permanent employee or a temporary employee one must be appointed in terms thereof.
a ticket of permanent employee was thus required to be issued in terms of order 3 of the standard standing orders.
grant of such ticket was imperative before permanency could be so claimed.
it is also not the case of the appellants that their names had appeared in the service book maintained for the said purpose.
the standing orders governing the terms and conditions of service must be read subject to the constitutional limitations wherever applicable.
the only provision as regard recruitment of the employees is contained in order 4 which merely provides that the manager shall within a period of six months lay down the procedure for recruitment of employees and notify it on the notice board on which standing orders are exhibited and shall send copy thereof to the labour commissioner.
the matter relating to recruitment is governed by the 1973 act and the 1987 rules.
but in absence of any conflict in the provisions of the said act the conditions of service including those relating to recruitment as provided for in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules would apply.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
for the purpose of regularization which would confer on the concerned employee a permanent status there must exist a post.
a demand which was not raised at the time of raising the dispute could not have been gone into by the labour court being not the subject matter thereof.
we have seen that their names had been appearing in the muster rolls maintained by the respondent.
the nature of their employment continues save and except a case where a statute interdicts which in turn would be subject to the constitutional limitations.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
the submission of mr m n rao to the effect that the principle of equity should be invoked in their case is stated to be rejected.
this case involves 31 employees.
a distinction is sought to be made by dr dhawan that out of them 27 had been appointed to a project and not in a project.
as noticed hereinbefore the high court s observation remained unchallenged that the project was to be financed by oda.
the project was indisputably to be executed by the indore development authority and for the implementation thereof the appointments had to be made by it.
furthermore the indore municipal corporation was not a party and thus no employee could be thrust upon it without its consent.
see also karnataka state coop.
apex bank ltd vs.
amar singh and others 2003 5 scc 388 2003 indlaw sc 331.
it is furthermore evident that the persons appointed as daily wagers held no posts.
the plea of dr dhawan to the effect that the appellants in civil appeal.
however it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
adverse inference.
some documents were said to have been called for from the respondents which are said to have been not produced.
an adverse inference need not necessarily be drawn only because it would be lawful to do so.
2004 air scw 5476.
2004 indlaw sc 829 this court observed in such a factual background in our opinion the industrial court or the high court could not have drawn an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the year 1990 to 1992 in the absence of specific pleading by the respondents applicants that at least during that period they had worked for 240 days continuously in a given year.
considering these facts in our view drawing of an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the years 1991 92 is wholly erroneous on the part of the industrial court and the high court.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court s view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
a court of law even in a case where provisions of the indian evidence act apply may presume or may not presume that if a party despite possession of the best evidence had not produced the same it would have gone against his contentions.
in the instant case the industrial tribunal did not draw any adverse inference against the appellant.
they were not therefore entitled to take the recourse of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work as adumbrated in articles 14 and 39d of the constitution of india.
the burden was on the appellants to establish that they had a right to invoke the said doctrine in terms of article 14 of the constitution of india.
for the purpose of invoking the said doctrine the nature of the work and responsibility attached to the post are some of the factors which were bound to be taken into consideration.
conclusion.
for the reasons aforementioned we do not find any merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.
appeals dismissed.
