act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
background facts.
the said nine flats it is said were merged and redesigned for joint living of the entire family.
the appellants herein and the said.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
a misc.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
impugned judgment.
by reason of the impugned order dated 17 october 2003 the learned special judge allowed misc.
applications nos.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
8 and exh.
8 1 to misc.
petition No 41 of 1999.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the indian companies act the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable but the same can not be applied in case of individuals.
a copy of the auditor s report having only been supplied during pendency of these appeals the learned special judge committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment relying on or on the basis thereof.
iithe applications for de notification filed by the appellants herein having been withdrawn the contention raised by the appellants that they are not liable in terms of the provisions of the act are not open to question particularly in view of the fact that no application for de notification could be filed subsequently as they had become barred by limitation.
reliance in this behalf has been placed on b c dalal 2005 indlaw sc 1826 v custodian.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
central calcutta 1972 3 scc 252 1971 indlaw sc 841.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
v the assets and liabilities of each of the entities having been audited by the chartered accountants it is evident from the reports that in all cases liabilities exceed the assets.
ixthe sale of commercial property had never been seriously contested by the appellants and in fact the contention of the appellants herein before the special court was that if the commercial properties were sold there would be no need to sell the residential properties.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
2 to deal with the situation and in particular to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved to punish the guilty and restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and credibility of the banks and financial institutions the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities ordinance 1992 was promulgated on the 6th june 1992.
sub s 2 of section 3 postulates that the custodian may on being satisfied on information received that any person has been involved in any offence relating to transactions in securities after the 1st day of april 1991 and on and before 6th june 1992 the statutory period notify the name of such person in the official gazette.
3 of section 3 contains a non obstante clause providing that on and from the date of notification under sub section 2 any property movable or immovable or both belonging to any person notified under that sub section shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification and such attached properties may be dealt with by the custodian in such manner as the special court may direct.
in the ordinance which preceded the act there was no provision for giving post facto hearing to a notified person for cancellation of notification but such a provision has been made in the act as would appear from section 42 thereof 1 of section 4 of the act reads as under contracts entered into fraudulently may be cancelled if the custodian is satisfied after such inquiry as he may think fit that any contract or agreement entered into at any time after the 1st day of april 1991 and on and before the 6th june 1992 in relation to any property of the person notified under sub s 2 of section 3 has been entered into fraudulently or to defeat the provisions of this act he may cancel such contract or agreement and on such cancellation such property shall stand attached under this act.
2 of section 4 however provides for a hearing as regard correctness or otherwise of the notification notifying a person in this behalf in the event an appropriate application therefor is filed within 30 days of the issuance of such notification.
any prosecution in respect of any offence referred to in sub s 2 of section 3 pending in any court is required to be transferred to the special court.
analysis of the statutory.
the act provides for stringent measures.
but at the stage when liabilities are required to be discharged the notified person may inter alia raise a contention inter alia for the purpose of establishing that the properties held and possessed by them are sufficient to meet their liabilities.
mehta 1998.
does the word due refer merely to the liability to pay such taxes etc or does it refer to a liability which has crystallised into a legally ascertained sum immediately payable.
do the taxes in cl.
a of section 112 refer only to taxes relating to a specific period or to all taxes due from the notified person.
whether taxes include penalty or interest.
whether the special court has the power to absolve a notified person from payment of penalty or interest for a period subsequent to the date of his notification section in the alternative is a notified person liable to payment of penalty or interest arising from his inability to pay taxes after his notification.
as regard question No 1 it was held in the present case the words taxes due occur in a section dealing with distribution of property.
at this stage the taxes due have to be actually paid out.
therefore the phrase taxes due can not refer merely to a liability created by the charging section to pay the tax under the relevant law.
it must refer to an ascertained liability for payment of taxes quantified in accordance with law.
in regard to question No 2 it was opined every kind of tax liability of the notified person for any other period is not covered by section 112a although the liability may continue to be the liability of the notified person.
but if the assessment is a best judgment assessment the special court may examine whether for example the income which is so assessed to tax bears comparison to the amounts attached by the custodian or whether the taxes so assessed are grossly disproportionate to the properties of the assessee in the hands of the custodian applying the wednesbury principle of proportionality.
in regard to question No 5 this court agreed with the finding of the special court that neither penalty nor interest can be considered as tax under section 112a of the act.
1992 3 bom cr 716 1992 indlaw mum 6066 wherein it was held if the person approaches the special court and makes out for example a case that the property which is attached has no nexus of any sort with the illegal dealings in securities belonging to banks and financial institutions during the relevant period andor that there are no claims or liabilities which have to be satisfied by attachment and sale of such property in our view the special court would have the power to direct the custodian to release such property from attachment.
a notified party has the requisite locus to bring the fact to the notice of the special court that certain sum is owing and due to him from a third party whereupon a proceeding can be initiated for recovery thereof by the custodian and consequent application thereof in discharge of the liability of the notified person.
ii sub s.
3 of section 3 should be literally construed and so construed all properties belonging to the notified person shall be subject to attachment which may consequently be applied for discharge of his liabilities in terms of section 11 of the said act.
the appeal is accordingly dismissed but without any order as to costs.
by reason thereof the property that belongs to a notified person stands attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification that makes him a notified party.
neither the words on and from the date of notification nor the word property lead to the conclusion that what is attached is not only that property which the notified person owned or was possessed of on the date of the notification but also all such property as he might acquire at any time thereafter.
it seems to us that to give to section 33 the wide meaning that has been ascribed to it in the judgment and order under appeal would render it perilously close to being held unconstitutional for it would deprive the notified person so long as he remained a notified person from earning a livelihood.
even to say that such interpretation would reduce a notified person to beggary would not be accurate because the alms that he received being his property would stand attached.
it has further been held that the property be shares dividends and bonus and rights shares would also be attached property.
iwhether the appellants being not involved in offences in transactions in securities could have been proceeded against in terms of the provisions of the act.
vwhether the residential properties should have been released from attachment.
the parties have also filed several charts before us showing individual assets and liabilities.
it has as noticed hereinbefore further been contended that various best judgment assessment passed by the assessing authority against some of the appellants have been set aside in appeal and the matters are pending reassessment before the assessing authority.
see bombay dyeing manufacturing co ltd v the state of bombay and others air 1958 sc 338 savitra khandu beradi v nagar agricultural sale and purchase co operative society ltd ahmednagar and others.
air 1957 bom 178 1957 indlaw mum 110 and hari raj singh v sanchalak panchayat.
raj u p govt.
lucknow and others.
air 1968 all 246 1967 indlaw all 16 but as observed hereinbefore.
in l s synthetics ltd 2004 indlaw sc 715 supra this court observed a statute of limitation bars a remedy and not a right.
although a remedy is barred a defence can be raised.
a special statute providing for special or no period of limitation must receive a liberal and broader construction and not a rigid or a narrow one.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
for the said purpose it is not necessary that they should be accused of commission of an offence as such.
the contention of the appellants to the effect that their properties should have been attached only towards the liabilities incurred by the parties in respect of the transactions made during the statutory period can not be accepted as all the appellants being notified the attachment of the assets would be automatic.
a corporate veil indisputably can be lifted on several grounds.
a transaction of benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 41 of the act as and when such a question is raised the same may have to be dealt with by the special court appropriately.
as the said question has not been gone into by the learned judge special court it is necessary that the same be considered and appropriately dealt with.
according to the appellants the custodian has under estimated the assets and exaggerated and overstated their liabilities.
a triable issue had been raised and the custodian s petition should have been converted into a suit.
the said contention must be properly adjudged.
several charts have been filed before us by the appellants to show i liabilities have been exaggerated by the custodian.
it is open to the appellants herein to show that even if they continued to be notified the custodian was not right in clubbing all the individual members of the family as a single entity styled as harshad mehta group.
a sur rejoinder thereto was filed on 15 october 2003 and in paragraphs 1 to 6 thereof the said statements were denied and disputed.
the estimated value of the immovable properties of this group is rs 184030038.
allegedly therein it was shown that the individuals had received large loans advances credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees.
before us mr desai had filed a chart for showing the same.
but the said chart has been drawn up on the basis of the audited accounts the correctness whereof is itself in dispute.
as regards liabilities of harshad mehta the appellants contended that since his expiry in the year 2001 his legal interests are not being defended both in the court as well as before the revenue as a result liabilities have been foisted upon him a large part which is on account of interest and penalties.
his death has also forced upon him bankruptcy.
a finding of fact arrived at upon discussing and analyzing the respective contentions could have gone a long way in assisting this court in arriving at a correct conclusion.
a question may further arise as to whether the learned judge was correct in considering the individual liabilities of the notified parties as the liabilities of the group.
he furthermore wanted to treat the liabilities of the notified entities also as their separate liabilities.
he has proceeded on the basis that even if the assets and liabilities of all individuals is taken on an individual basis the liabilities would exceed assets in the case of each individual and corporate entity.
the contention of the appellant to the effect that the income tax dues should have been considered at the point of time when they become recoverable can not be accepted having regard to the 3 judge bench decision of this court in b c dalal 2005 indlaw sc 1826 supra wherein this court categorically held that in absence of any order of stay granted by the higher court the liabilities would remain.
co ltd 1971 indlaw sc 841 supra this court has held although that liability can not be enforced till the quantification is effected by assessment proceedings the liability for payment of tax is independent of the assessment.
it is significant that in the present case the liability had even been quantified and a demand had been created in the sum of rs 149776 by means of the notice dated november 21 1957 during the pendency of the assessment proceedings before the income tax officer and before the finalisation of the assessment.
but in this case the orders of assessment have been set aside.
a chart has been annexed to the additional written submissions filed by mr desai which originated from a letter dated 9th december 2005 issued by the office of the commissioner of income tax showing the current status of the liabilities of the individual members of the harshad mehta group in the following terms i ashwin mehta rs 1396 crores ii.
deepika mehta rs 120 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
aatur holdings rs 15 95 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
2 7 crores.
the learned special court having not arrived at such a finding this court is not in a position to go into the correctness or otherwise thereabout.
1998 indlaw sc 732 supra.
this court it is trite can take into consideration the subsequent events.
in board of control for cricket in india and another v netaji cricket club and others 2005 4 scc 741 2005 indlaw sc 1243.
the learned counsel for the appellants proposes to offer his comments on the bids and the two orders of the special court.
the said order however was modified and clarified by an order dated 5th may 2004 that the same shall not apply to the sale of commercial properties in view of the order of the learned judge special court dated 17th october 2003 wherein it was pointed out that the notified parties did not dispute the commercial properties being put to sale by the custodian.
in any event ordinarily a bona fide purchaser for value in an action sale is treated differently than a decree holder purchasing such properties.
the said decision has been affirmed by this court in gurjoginder singh v jaswant kaur.
1967 2 scr 77 1966 indlaw sc 120.
despite the fact that ordinarily a sale can be set aside only under rules 89 90 and 91 of order xxxi it was opined that the court is bound to confirm the sale and direct the grant of a certificate vesting the title in the purchaser as from the date of sale when no application in term of rule 92 was made or when such application was made and disallowed and in support thereof zain ul abdin khan 1887 indlaw pc 13 supra and various other decisions were referred to.
the flats however during pendency of these appeals have been sold in auction.
No 202.
arunachal bhawan barakhamba road is subject matter of a separate proceeding pending before this court viz civil appeal.
No 681 of 2004.
admittedly the flats have been sold subject to the result of these appeals.
conclusion.
the question as to whether the appellants could have been considered to be part of harshad mehta group by the learned special court need not be determined by us as at present advised in view of the fact that appropriate applications in this behalf are pending consideration before the learned special court.
as regard the tax liabilities of the appellants herein we would request the learned judge special court to consider the matter afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
the custodian may also take assistance and or further assistance from a chartered accountant of his choice.
a reply and or rejoinder thereto shall be filed within one week from the date of the receipt of the copy of the objection.
the learned judge special court shall allow the parties to make brief oral submissions with pointed reference to their written submissions.
it will also be open to the learned judge special court to pass an interim order or orders as it may think fit and proper in the event any occasion arises therefor.
save and except for sufficient or cogent reasons the learned judge shall not grant any adjournment to either of the parties.
appeals allowed.
