at about 2 00 p m on 10th november 2002 a boy whose identity is not forthcoming informed satnam singh pw2 that an incident of firing had taken place in the house of ujjagar singh situated in the fields on the outskirts of the village.
puran singh had however transferred 30 or 35 bighas of agricultural land falling to his share after the death of his father in the name of the appellant s sons by a collusive decree in the year 1994 and the suggestion was that this transaction had been objected to by mukhtiar kaur who was demanding that the land be returned to her.
after completion of the investigation at the spot mukhtiar kaur s dead body was sent for its post mortem examination.
dr harwinder kaur aforesaid also took swabs from the vagina of the deceased and as per the chemical examiner s report dated 2 1 2003 semen was found on the swab taken from the vagina and from the underwear that mukhtiar kaur had been wearing at the time of her death.
on the completion of the investigation a charge sheet under sections 302 376 and 309 of the ipc was filed against the accused and as he pleaded not guilty he was brought to trial.
balwinder singh pw9 however supported the prosecution case deposing that the land had in fact been got transferred from gurmail kaur mother of mukhtiar kaur to ujjagar singh by fraud and mukhtiar kaur was therefore entitled to its return.
he also deposed that mukhtiar kaur had told him some time earlier that the accused had been beating her and had also committed sexual intercourse with her and that at about 11 p m on 10 11 2002 karam singh pw10 had informed him as to what had transpired on which he along with his father hamir singh pw12 and several others had rushed to bangawali.
the prosecution also placed reliance on the statement of asi jasbir singh pw11 who had accompanied inspector harjinder pal singh pw14 to the place of incident and supported the recoveries made from the spot.
the prosecution case was then put to the accused and his statement recorded section.
313 of the cr.
i was treating mukhtiar kaur as my daughter and loved her as my daughter.
i have not killed mukhtiar kaur.
mr goburdhan the learned counsel for the accused has raised several arguments in the course of hearing.
he has pointed out that there was absolutely no evidence to suggest that mukhtiar kaur had been subjected to rape and in this view of the matter the very basis for the imposition of the death penalty was not made out.
he has also pointed out that there were no eye witnesses to the incident and the 4 witnesses i e jora singh and others who had reached the place of incident and carried the injured appellant to the hospital had also resiled and as the prosecution story now rested on circumstantial evidence alone it was imperative for the investigating officer to have taken the finger prints from the weapon and that in any case the recovery of the spent cartridges and the gun were clearly suspicious as the weapon had been sent to the laboratory after an inordinate delay.
the learned state counsel has however supported the judgment of the courts below.
we find from the medical evidence and from the chemical examiner s reports that the vaginal swab and clothes taken from the dead body did indicate the presence of semen.
No 4 an abrasion near the right eye do not indicate any attempt to rape or the commission of rape.
but we see no justification in the omission of the prosecution to have him examined after he had recovered his health and been discharged from hospital.
we are further of the opinion that even assuming for a moment that sexual intercourse between the two had indeed taken place it can not be said from the evidence before us that it was without the consent or against the wishes of mukhtiar kaur.
he has also relied on the judgment of balu sonba shinde v state of maharashtra 2002 7 scc 543 2002 indlaw sc 1923 to contend that it was open to the accused to take advantage insofar as possible from the statement of a witness though declared hostile and the four witnesses having disowned the prosecution story and having given a different version the appellant was entitled to derive such benefit as possible in this situation.
in mahmood v state of u p 1976 1 scc 542 1975 indlaw sc 643 it has been observed that in a case dependent wholly on circumstantial evidence the court must be satisfied athat the circumstances from which the inference of guilt is to be drawn have been fully established by unimpeachable evidence beyond a shadow of doubt bthat the circumstances are of a determinative tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused and cthat the circumstances taken collectively are incapable of explanation on any reasonable hypothesis save that of the guilt sought to be proved against him.
it may be noted here that this court indicated that the circumstances concerned must or should and not may be established.
certainly it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between may be is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.
2the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused that is to say they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty 3the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency 4they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved and 5there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
mr goburdhan has also cited mahmood v state of u p 1976 1 scc 542 1975 indlaw sc 643 shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra 1981 2 scc 35 1980 indlaw sc 47 sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 omwati smt and ors v mahendra singh.
1998 9 scc 81 1997 indlaw sc 1403 sudama pandey ors v state of bihar 2002 1 scc 679 2001 indlaw sc 21243 and r r khanna reddy anr.
these judgments have broadly followed the principles laid down in the judgments referred to above and need not therefore be dealt with us in extenso.
a few facts stand out from the prosecution story.
first the place of incident being adjoining rooms in the residential house of the appellant and the fact that the alleged murder weapon is his licensed dbbl gun is proved on record.
the evidence also reveals that the appellant was living in the premises along with his wife mother and son and two daughters who were studying outside the village were frequent visitors but it is the admitted position that nobody but the appellant and the deceased were present at the time of incident.
the aforesaid articles had been carried to the laboratory by constable gopal singh who in his affidavit dated 17th march 2003 deposed that he had first taken the articles to the laboratory on 9th december 2002 but they had been returned by the director on the ground that the seals affixed thereon were not of the requisite number and that after removing the objections raised by the director the articles aforesaid had been returned to the laboratory on 18th december 2002.
to our mind therefore this is yet another circumstance inculpating the accused.
no blackening or foreign body was visible.
underlying muscles were exposed and contamination was present.
he has also drawn our attention to the cross examination of the doctor wherein he reiterated that there was no visible blackening and that it was not possible for him to say whether the injury was suicidal or otherwise.
the fact that the terrace and the bedroom are adjoining each other is not in dispute.
the autopsy report shows that a blackening and charring existed so far as injury no i is concerned.
blackening or charring is possible when a shot is fired from a distance of about 2 feet to 3 feet.
it goes a long way to show that the same must have been done by a person who wanted to kill the deceased from a short distance.
the onus was on him.
he failed to discharge the same.
it must be emphasized that but for this self serving statement made by the appellant there is nothing on record to support his positive stance.
the firearm is usually fired at close range.
a small weapon like a revolver or a pistol is held in the hand while a rifle or a shot gun is supported on the ground or against the wall.
in homicidal and accidental shooting the wound may be on any part of the body and the path of the bullet may be in any direction.
homicidal shooting by dacoits is not uncommon in india and they are known to make their own firearms.
a fateh describes a rare homicidal gun shot wound of the mouth where the entry wound was in the tongue and the direction was horizontally backward while in suicidal wounds the direction is upwards entrance would be in the palate or posterior pharynx.
for example with firearm temple forehead mouth and chest are the favourite sites.
the question now arises as to the sentence that should be imposed on the appellant.
it would be seen that both the sessions court and the high court were appalled by the allegations and findings of incestuous rape and murder.
we accordingly acquit the appellant of the charge section 376 of the ipc but maintain his conviction for the other offences but commute his death sentence to life.
appeal dismissed.
