the deceased bhimabai was daughter of pw 1 tukaram eknath tambe resident of village sanjkheda.
appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
she also told her parents that her husband had asked her to bring an amount of rs 1000 1200 for the purpose of household expenses and manure.
on the basis of the said accidental death report pw 6 sandeepan kamble police sub inspector visited the house of the accused held inquest on the dead body of bhimabai and thereafter sent the same for post mortem examination.
the specific case of the prosecution is that bhimabai ended her life by consuming poison because of harassment caused to her by the appellants for or in connection with demand of dowry.
whenever bhimabai came to her parental home she used to complain that for some domestic reasons she was being harassed.
he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which was smelling of thimet insecticide.
in his cross examination he has admitted that his statement that he had given rs 20000 in dowry at the time of marriage was incorrect and in fact he had given rs 5000 as dowry and the total expenses incurred in the marriage was about rs 20000.
he has also deposed that it was after about 1 12 years of marriage that bhimabai first complained to him about the harassment being caused to her.
he has admitted that it was appellant No 1 who had sent a person on motorcycle who had given information regarding bhimabai being unwell and that both the appellants were present at the time of her funeral.
pw 2 babaji is real brother of father in law of pw 1 tukaram.
in his cross examination he has admitted that when he had gone to village palshi to talk with the appellants regarding the ill treatment being meted out to bhimabai there was no talk regarding monetary giving and taking.
pw 5 sumanbai is the mother of the deceased bhimabai.
she has further stated that she did not make any enquiry as to how bhimabai had died.
she replied that she did not know why there was no mention in the said statement that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
he has further deposed that bhimabai had come to his house about six months earlier and had said all was not well between her and her husband but she had not given any specific details.
the main witnesses regarding the alleged demand of money and also harassment and beating to bhimabai are her father and mother viz pw 1 tukaram and pw 5 sumanbai.
the evidence on record does not indicate that the police had any reason to favour the accused and deliberately omitted to mention about the alleged demand of money while recording the statement of pw 5 sumanbai under section 161 cr.
definition of dowry in this act dowry means any property or valuable security given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly a by one party to a marriage to the other party to the marriage or b by the parent of either party to a marriage or by any other person to either party to the marriage or to any other person at or before or any time after the marriage in connection with the marriage of the said parties but does not include dowry or mahr in the case of persons to whom the muslim personal law shariat applies.
being a penal provision it has to be strictly construed.
see union of india v garware nylons ltd air 1996.
a demand for money on account of some financial stringency or for meeting some urgent domestic expenses of for purchasing manure can not be termed as a demand for dowry as the said word is normally understood.
the evidence adduced by the prosecution does not therefore show that any demand for dowry as defined in section 2 of the dowry prohibition act was made by the appellants as what was allegedly asked for was some money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
he has submitted that the insecticide thimet is extensively used by the farmers for preservation of crop and is kept stored in their houses and it could be a case where thimet accidentally got mixed with some food item and was consumed by bhaimabai.
it has thus been submitted that no offence under section 306 ipc is made out against the appellants.
we do not consider it necessary to examine this question.
sc 240 1961 indlaw sc 171 that section 4231bi of code of criminal procedure 1898 which corresponds to section 386bi of code of criminal procedure 1973 is clearly confined to cases of appeals preferred against orders of conviction and sentence the powers conferred by this clause can not be exercised for the purpose of reversing an order of acquittal passed in favour of a party in respect of an offence charged in dealing with an appeal preferred by him against the order of conviction in respect of another offence charged and found proved.
in view of the discussion made above the appeal is allowed.
he shall be released forthwith unless wanted in some other case.
the sureties and bail bonds furnished by her are discharged.
appeal allowed.
