allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
appellant s counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
against m s jain industries and the dy.
in these circumstances the request of the plaintiff is granted and petitioner is permitted to withdraw this petition and file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
the said m s jain industries however was not impleaded as a party therein.
by an order dated 19 1 1988having regard to the provisions contained in the said act the learned judge opined that appellant having become the registered proprietor of the said trade mark no case for grant of injunction has been made out the interim order of injunction passed on 19 12 1985 was vacated and the defendants were permitted to use their registered trade mark subject to the following conditions a defendants will not use the logo style of the word field marshal of which logo and style the plaintiff is the proprietor under the copyright act.
b defendants shall mention the name of the defendant firm thukral mechanical works sirhind on each and every centrifugal pump manufactured by them and sold in the name of field marshal.
a writ petition was filed there against by the first respondent.
a learned single judge of the delhi high court however refused to stay the operation of the order of the board dated 27 10 2004 an appeal was preferred there against.
the said order of the division bench is under challenge in this appeal.
before adverting thereto we may take notice of the relevant statutory provisions ss 461b481482 and 56 read as under section 46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1 subject to the provisions of section 47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub s 3 of s 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application u cl a or cl b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevent date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
the permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be used by the proprietor thereof and shall be deemed not to be used by a person other than the proprietor for the purposes of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.
section 56 power to cancel or vary registration and to rectify the register  1.
on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved the tribunal may make such order as it may think fit for cancelling or varying the registration of a trade mark on the ground of any contravention or failure to observe a condition entered on the register in relation thereto.
any person aggrieved by the absence or omission from the register of any entry or by any entry made in the register without sufficient cause or by any entry wrongly remaining on the register or by any error of defect in any entry in the register may apply in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar and the tribunal may make such order for making expunging or varying the entry as it may think fit.
the tribunal may in any proceeding under this section decide any question that may be necessary or expedient to decide in connection with the rectification of the register.
whereas s 46 had a limited application s 56 of the act is wider in nature.
concededly cl a of sub s 1 of s 46 is not attracted in the case.
the high court on the other hand opined it was not anybody s case before us that m s jain industries.
the registered proprietor of the trademark used it at all.
this appears to be the position at least till 30th may1986 in.
registration of a trade mark remains valid for seven years.
first respondent withdrew the application against m s jain industries.
3 scc 576 1992 indlaw sc 1107 or in the context of cl 22 of art 366 of the constitution as has been held in h h maharajadhiraja.
it confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
when the applicant before the board establishes the fact in regard to non user of the mark for a period of more than five years on the part of the registered owner the latter may show that his case falls within the purview of sub s 3 of s 46.
a registered proprietor of a trade mark should not be permitted to circumvent the law of user of the trade mark for a long time by assigning the same from time to time.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
it must be proved in presence of the person against whom such allegations are made.
renewal of registration in a sense also is not automatic.
a person who had been using the said trade mark as a proprietor thereof by user is supposed to keep itself abreast with such applications filed by another either for registration of the trade mark or renewal thereof.
as a person obtains a right on and from the date of registration andor renewal thereof he can ordinarily be deprived of his right unless it is shown that the assignment thereof by his holder was not a bona fide one or had been made by way of camouflage.
if the assignee has obtained assignment for bona fide use he may not be fastened with any liability owing to non user on the part of his predecessor.
cls a and b operate in different fileds.
the trade mark for which registration is obtained is used intermittently.
it did not.
first respondent itself accepts that at least immediately prior to the institution of the suit appellant had been using the same.
for the purpose of making out such a case both the original registrants as also the assignee were required to be impleaded as parties.
we may at this stage notice that in law of trade marks by mr k c kailasam while commenting on s 47 of the trade marks act1999 to which our attention has been drawn by mr sudhir chandra it is stated.
this clause corresponds to s 46 of the existing act and provides for removal of a trade mark from the register on the ground of non use.
a trade mark which is not used within five years of its registration becomes liable for removal either completely or in respect of those goods or services for which the mark has not been used.
this is intended to prevent the registered proprietor to by pass the act by such token use after he comes to know that an application for removal is about to be filed sub cl 3 protects a mark from being removed from the register on ground of non use if such non use is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade.
consequential amendments have been made to cover services cl 47 of the bill.
thus a case of speculative assignment is specifically required to be made out.
such an application may be maintainable in terms of s 56 of the act but strictly not in terms of s 461b thereof and that too in the absence of the original registered proprietor.
the question of maintainability of the second suit is absence of the registrant proprietor was not and could not have been the subject matter of consent at that stage.
the second contention of mr that the appellant was an infringer of the trade mark is again a question of fact.
the right of the first respondent as a proprietor of the trade mark by reason of a long user is required to be determined vis  vis m s jain industries as also the appellant in the suit filed by it which is pending.
it is not correct that no cause of action survived against jain industries.
in the suit only the competing right of the first respondent qua the appellant can be determined and not a right against m s such a right can not be determined in a proceeding under s 461b of the act which is restricted to non user of the registered trade mark.
as it takes away somebody s right it deserves strict construction.
so long as the right to assign a registered trade mark remains valid once the same is validly assigned the assignee derives the same right as that of the assignor in terms of the statute.
a title to a trade mark derived on assignment as provided for under the act can not be equated with a defective title acquired in any other property as admittedly on the date of assignment the right of the registered trade mark was not extinguished.
such continuous non user.
if that be so any registered proprietor could easily defeat an application for rectification by assigning the mark to some other person to have a fresh period of 5 years from the date of assignment and thus effectively frustrate the very object of the provision in s 471a and b further it is to be noted that an assignment is subject to the provisions of the act and any rights vested in any other person see.
s 37 the assignor can not obviously transfer more rights than he himself has to the assignee under the act.
an assigner can transfer only such right which he possesses.
the appeal is allowed with costs.
counsel s fee assessed at rs 100000.
appeal allowed.
