act1974 in shortthe act in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act even then this is not a fit case where this court in the exercise of its power u art 136 of the constitution would interfere with such an order of the high court.
accordingly they prayed for rejection of the application filed by the father of the appellants claiming occupancy rights under the act.
feeling aggrieved the respondent no 4 filed an appeal before the appellate authority which was also dismissed.
a revision petition thereafter was moved before the high court and the high court by the impugned judgment had set aside the concurrent findings of fact and rejected the application filed by the father since deceased of the appellants holding inter alia that the appellants or their father had failed to prove the tenancy in respect of the scheduled land.
a special leave petition was filed against the judgment of the high court setting aside the concurrent orders allowing the application in respect of which leave has already been granted.
it is true that the high court while exercising its revisional power under section 121a of the act had set aside the concurrent findings of fact of the land tribunal as well as of the appellate authority even then examining the findings of the high court and considering the power conferred on it in the revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act we do not find any reason to interfere with the impugned order of the high court in the exercise of our power u art 136 of the constitution.
thus he has no documentary evidence in respect of his claim that he came in possession of the land in dispute as a tenant under the 5th respondent and that he was cultivating the land in dispute as a tenant.
even in respect of the said claim he failed to produce any documentary evidence evidencing the said lease of land in dispute from gundu rao.
so the only question which arises for consideration is whether the said cultivation of the land in dispute by the father of the respondents 3 and 4 during the years 1968 to 1974 can be presumed to be that of a tenant under the provisions of s 4 of the karnataka land reforms act.
again the high court while setting aside the findings of fact also made the following findings but in the instant case since the respondents 3 and 4 failed to produce any evidence to show that their father was cultivating the land in dispute as a tenant under the 5th respondent mortgagee and even when the entries in the r t c extract produced do not support the claim of tenancy set up by the father of the respondents 3 and 4the question of drawing presumption of deemed tenancy in his favour under s 4 of the act does not arise.
in the present case also the respondents 3 and 4 failed to prove that their father was cultivating the land in dispute from the year 1968 as a tenant under the respondent no 5 and that after the death of their father they continued as tenants in respect of the land in dispute.
from a careful examination of the findings given by the high court as quoted hereinabove in upsetting the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below we are not in a position to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent orders of the tribunals below in the exercise of its revisional power under section 121a of the act.
we have carefully examined the provisions under section 121a of the act which is the revisional power under the act and also the provisions u s 115 of the code of civil procedure for short the code so far as s 115 of the code is concerned it has been made clear that it is only in case of a jurisdictional error or when the courts below had acted with material irregularity in the exercise of their jurisdiction that the question of interfering with such an order can arise otherwise the high court is not entitled to interfere with any other order which does not satisfy the conditions laid down for interference u s 115 of the code.
as noted herein earlier since section 121a of the act clearly empowers the high court to look into the legality of the orders impugned therefore it would be open to the high court to consider the material evidence on record when it finds that such evidence was not at all considered by the tribunals below or when the conclusion arrived at by the tribunals below run contrary to the materials on record or when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the tribunals below or that the reasons given by the tribunals below are absolutely perverse or a finding was such that no court would come to such a conclusion or that the decisions of the tribunals below were manifestly unjust.
we have already noted the findings made by the high court in the impugned judgment on the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants on the evidence and materials on record.
one of the main criteria for deciding whether a particular person is a tenant or not is to see whether there was payment of rent either in cash or in kind.
the tribunals below while accepting the case of the appellants had relied on the entries made in the rtc record in respect of certain period.
in our view also the high court was fully justified in drawing an adverse inference against the appellants for not producing any geni receipts or any lease agreement to show that the 5th respondent before the high court respondent no 3 herein had in fact leased out the scheduled land in favour of the appellants or their father since deceased on crop share basis and that the appellants had paid the geni to the 5th respondent.
considering the above aspect of the matter and after considering the scope of section 121a of the act we are therefore unable to agree with the learned counsel for the appellants that in the exercise of revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act the high court was not entitled to set aside the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the appellate authority and the land tribunal.
in support of his contention he had relied on a decision of this court in the case of dahya lal ors vs.
he also relied on a decision of this court in the case of mohan balaku patil ors vs.
by lrs 2000 1 scc 518 1999 indlaw sc 941 and krishtappa yellappa pujar ors vs.
by lrs 2000 1 scc 518 1999 indlaw sc 941 is concerned it is difficult to conceive how this decision could be of any help to the appellants.
in our view we have already held that the high court was entitled to interfere with the concurrent orders of the tribunals below as material evidence on record was not considered at all and non consideration of the material evidence on record is a question of law and therefore the high court was entitled to interfere.
accordingly this decision is of no help to the appellants.
even assuming that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent findings of fact in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act then also we are of the view that it is not a fit case where this court should interfere with the impugned judgment of the high court in the exercise of our power u art 136 of the constitution.
in union of india ors vs.
again in jai mangal oraon vs mira nayak smt ors 2000 5 scc 141.
2000 indlaw sc 332this court had laid down that when there was nothing illegal and wrong in the reasoning and conclusions arrived at by the high court and the same appeared to be well merited and in accordance with the interpretation of statutory provisions this court would not interfere with the order of the high court u art 136 of the constitution.
finally in taherakhatoon d by lrs.
appeal dismissed.
