before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
he used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
the scheme was notified in the year 1999 respondent no 1 herein which is the statutory agency in terms of the act for the purpose of implementation of the scheme issued a notice u s 67 of the act upon the respondent no 4 on or about 15 01 2000 as he did not respond thereto a notice u s 68 of the act was served on him on 31 03 2000 stating as per the said approved preliminary scheme the plot no 157 is allotted to you.
the action as per the s 188 of the indian penal code will be initiated against you before the criminal court pleased take note of the same.
the validity and or legality of the said notice was questioned by the appellant by filing a writ petition in the high court of gujarat inter alia contending that the purported final allotment of plot no 165 in favour of the respondent no 3 and allotment of final plot no 157 in favour of the respondent no 4 were made without issuing any notice as envisaged u ss 52 and 53 of the act.
further it appears that if the interest of the landlord and of the tenant is common and in absence of any inter se dispute between the landlord and tenant even if any portion of the land which is in possession of the tenant is included in the scheme the proper remedy for the tenant would be to claim for compensation to that extent and if such compensation is not received by him he may resort to proper remedy available for recovery of the compensation to the extent of the area in his occupation.
suffice it to say that the tenant will be at liberty to resort to appropriate proceedings against the landlord for the inter se rights and also for entitlement of the compensation.
a division bench of the high court dismissed an intra court appeal preferred thereagainst.
the provisions of ss 52 and 81 being imperative in character no acquisition of land is permissible without service of any notice upon the persons interested which would include a tenant in occupation and carrying on business thereon.
the tenant s interest being distinct and separate could not have been held to be merged with the interest of the landlord either for the purpose of allotment of a final plot or otherwise in favour of the landlord.
appellant having a right over the remaining 200 sq m of the land of original plot no 178 should be allowed to continue thereupon and final allotment made in favour of the respondent no 3 to that extent should be cancelled.
ii respondent no 1 corporation merely being interested in the implementation of the scheme is entitled to obtain vacant possession from him so as to enable it to deliver it to the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been finally allotted.
it is not necessary for us to delve deep into the statutory scheme.
s 52 of the act provides for the contents of preliminary and final scheme.
further sub s 3 of section 65ss 67 and 68 of the act read as under 65 power of government to sanction or refuse to sanction the scheme and effect of sanction.
3 on and after the date fixed in such notification the preliminary scheme or the final scheme as the case may be shall have effect as if it were enacted in this act.
on the day on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
shall in accordance with the prescribed procedure be summarily evicted by the appropriate authority.
such notice shall be published in the official gazette and in one or more gujarati newspapers circulated within the area of the appropriate authority and shall be pasted in prominent places at or near the areas comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
the town planning officer shall before proceeding to deal with the matters specified in section 52publish a notice in form h in the official gazette and in one or more gujarati newspapers circulating within the area of the appropriate authority.
such notice shall specify the matters which are proposed to be decided by the town planning officer and state that all persons who are interested in the plots or are affected by any of the matters specified in the notice shall communicate in writing their objections to the town planning officer within a period of twenty days from the publication of notice in the official gazette.
33 procedure for eviction u s 68 1.
c if the person to be evicted resists or obstructs the officer or servant deputed u cl b or.
it makes it obligatory on the part of the officer to give notice of the date on which he will commence his duties and shall state therein the time within which the owner of any property or rights which is injuriously affected by the making of the town planning scheme shall be advertised in one or more newspapers published in the regional language and circulating within the jurisdiction of the local authority and shall be posted in prominent places at or near the area comprised in the scheme and at the office of the town planning officer.
sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for serving of a special notice of at least three clear days upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular area comprised in the scheme before the town planning officer proceeds to deal in detail with the portion of the scheme relating thereto.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
darji1991 indlaw sc 975 supra wherein this court opined that sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules was mandatory in nature subject of course to the condition that on the crucial date viz when the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette he whether an owner or tenant or sub tenant must be in possession of the property.
appellant was a tenant in respect of plot no 178 plot no 177 was not a plot contiguous thereto.
they were separated not only by a road but also by various other plots.
the draft scheme was approved 867 sq m of land had been acquired for public purpose out of the said plot no 178 while the proceedings relating to allotment of final plot were in progress he even did not file any objection thereto.
if he intended to claim any interest in a portion of plot no 178 either for the purpose of obtaining compensation for acquisition of a part of the land or to continue to have possession over 200 sq m of land in plot no 178it was obligatory on his part to take part in the proceedings.
validity of rule 26 of the rules had never been questioned.
we would consider the effect of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act a little later but we may at this juncture notice that the respondent no 3 in whose favour plot no 165 has been allotted which includes 200 sq m of land purported to be in possession of the appellant had nothing to do with the dispute between the appellant and his landlord the respondent no 4 respondent no 4 was in possession of a contiguous plot.
nos 177 and 178 he was therefore in his own right entitled to final allotment of some plot.
we would however assume that it was obligatory on the part of the state to serve a special notice upon the appellant.
different statutes provide for different manner of service of notice.
we have referred to the said decisions only to show that the requirements in regard to the manner of service of notice varies from statute to statute and there exists a difference between the bombay rules and the rules.
254opined that when a development is made the owner of the property gets much more than what would have he got if the same remained undeveloped in the process as by reason thereof he gets the benefit of living in a developed town having good town planning.
s 67 of the act provides that all lands required by the appropriate authority shall unless it is otherwise determined in such scheme vest absolutely in the appropriate authority free from all encumbrances with effect from the date on which the preliminary scheme comes into force.
if a claim is not filed the person who is said to be injuriously affected does so at its own peril.
when a statute makes an elaborate provision as regards the formalities required to be undergone at every stage by the local authority the state government and other authorities concerned in preparing and making the final town planning scheme the same should be considered to be exhaustively maneklal chhotalal.
what is in dispute is the distribution of quantum thereof between two competing claimants viz landlord and tenant.
even if he had a claim he would be deemed to have waived the same for the reasons stated hereinafter.
it is not in dispute that a appellant although filed an objection with regard to the draft scheme did not choose to pursue it.
we are of the opinion that even if he had any such right he waived the same.
in halsbury s laws of england volume 1624th edition para 907it is stated the expression waiver may in law bear different meanings.
as early as 1957the concept of waiver was articulated in a case involving the late assertion of a claim regarding improper constitution of a tribunal in manak lal v dr prem chand air 1957 sc 425 1957 indlaw sc 159 in the following terms.
it is true that waiver can not always and in every case be inferred merely from the failure of the party to take the objection.
waiver can be inferred only if and after it is shown that the party knew about the relevant facts and was aware of his right to take the objection.
1861 30 beav 65 54 e r 813817 waiver or acquiescence like election presupposes that the person to be bound is fully cognizant of his rights and that being so he neglects to enforce them or chooses one benefit instead of another either but not both of which he might claim.
and now the applicant after all these proceedings have been taken by him after doubtless much expense has been incurred on the part of the caveator and after lying by and hoping to get a judgment of the court in his favour asks the court to do that which but for some reasons known to himself he might have asked the court to do before any other step in the proceedings had been taken.
the legal principle emerging from these decisions is also stated in craies on statute law 6th edn at page 369 as follows as a general rule the conditions imposed by statutes which authorise legal proceedings are treated as being indispensable to giving the court jurisdiction.
but if it appears that the statutory conditions were inserted by the legislature simply for the security or benefit of the parties to the action themselves and that no public interests are involved such conditions will not be considered as indispensable and either party may waive them without affecting the jurisdiction of the court.
significantly a similar conclusion was reached in the case of krishna bahadur v purna theatre 2004 8 scc 229 2004.
in ramdev food products pvt.
ltd v.
the answer to the said question must be rendered in the negative.
a person who is entitled to rely on a stipulation existing for his benefit alone in a contract or of a statutory provision may waive it and allow the contract or transaction to proceed as though the stipulation or provision did not exist.
he may however take recourse to such remedy which is available with him in law including one by filing a suit or making a representation before the state.
appeal dismissed.
