this matter is a classic illustration of the confusion which has emerged on account of the postponement of in part commencement of patents amendment act2005.
act1970 as amended by the patents amendment act1999 w e f 26 3 99.
on 14 6 2000 j mitra company pvt ltd.
3 appellant herein filed its application for grant of patent.
after scrutiny the said application stood notified by the patent office on 20 11 2004.
thus proceedings commenced before the controller of patents in the year 2000 when the appellant herein sought a patent of their device which was opposed by respondent no 3 in the year 2000 by then the patents amendment act1999 had amended the patents act1970 w e f 26 3 99 s 25 of the patents act1970 as amended by patents amendment act1999 dealt with opposition to a patent vides s 25 at that time appeals against decisions made by the controller pertaining to pre grant oppositions under s 25 were maintainable before the high court u s 1162 of the indian patents act1970.
1 at any time within four months from the date of advertisement of the acceptance of a complete specification under this act or within such further period not exceeding one month in the aggregate as the controller may allow on application made to him in the prescribed manner before the expiry of the four months aforesaid any person interested may give notice to the controller of opposition to the grant of the patent on any of the following grounds namely a that the applicant for the patent or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim i in any specification filed in pursuance of an application for a patent made in india on or after the 1st day of january1912 or ii in india or elsewhere in any other document provided that the ground specified in sub cl ii shall not be available where such publication does not constitute an anticipation of the invention by virtue of sub s 2 or sub s 3 of section 29 that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the applicant s claim and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the applicant s claim a that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.
explanation for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant s claim c that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act d that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed e that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge f that in the case of a convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title.
but on no other ground.
2 save as otherwise expressly provided in sub section 1an appeal shall lie to a high court from any decision order or direction of the controller under any of the following provisions that is to say section 15section 16section17section 18section.
20section 25section.
27section 28section.
51section 54section 57section.
60section 61section 63sub s 3 of section 69section 78section 84section 86s 883section 89section 93s 96 and s 97.
it may be noted that in the said amendment act2002no provision was made pertaining to post grant opposition.
vide s 47 of the patents amendment act2002 entire chapter xix stood substituted.
provided that the technical member of the appellate board for the purposes of this act shall have the qualifications specified in sub s 2.
2 a person shall not be qualified for appointment as a technical member for the purposes of this act unless he.
a has at least five years hold the post of controller under this act or has exercised the functions of the controller under this act for at least five years or.
section 117a 1.
16section 17section.
18section.
51section 54section 57section 60section 61section 63section.
66sub s 3 of section 69section.
every appeal under this section shall be in prescribed form and shall be verified in such manner as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by a copy of the decision order or direction appealed against any by such fees as may be prescribed.
the provisions of the said amendment act2002however were not simultaneously brought into force.
suffice it to note that ss 116 and 117a were not brought into force.
act1970 for the reason that the amended ss 116 and 117a were not brought into force.
vide s 23 of the patents amendment.
act2005the then existing s 25 was substituted.
d that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.
e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the claim h that the patentee has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of a patent granted on convention application the application for patent was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country or in india by the patentee or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source and geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was anticipated.
in case the controller issues an order under sub s 4 that the patent shall be maintained subject to amendment of the specification or any other document the patent shall stand amended accordingly.
we also quote s 61 of the patents amendment act2005 which reads as under s 61 in section 117a of the principal act as inserted by s 47 of the patents amendment act2002in.
sub section 2for the words and figures section 20section 25section 27section 28the words figures and brackets section 20sub s 4 of section 25section 28 shall be substituted.
in short by the patents amendment act2005for the first time a dichotomy was introduced in the patent law between opposition to the pre grant and opposition to the post grant of patent.
the result is that although the legislature intended to provide for only one statutory appeal to the appellate board by reason of s 61 of the patents amendment act2005 not being brought into force till 2 4 07 a strange situation developed.
act1999 continued to be in operation notwithstanding the enactment of the patents.
act2005 as the amended ss 116 and 117a were brought into force only vide notification dated 2 4 07 one more point needs to be noted.
section 117 g of the principal act was substituted vide patents amendment act2005 it reads as under section 117g transfer of pending proceedings to appellate board  all cases of appeals against any order or decision of the controller and all cases pertaining to revocation of patent other than on a counter claim in a suit for infringement and rectification of register pending before any high court shall be transferred to the appellate board from such date as may be notified by the central government in the official gazette and the appellate board may proceed with the matter either de novo or from the stage it was so transferred.
that amended s 117 g is consequential to the enforcement of the jurisdiction of the appellate board u s 64 which results to revocation of patent.
according to the appellant this was a structural change in the principal act.
this was not done.
at times provision is made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
by reason of patents amendment act2005the kind of opposition available under the said 1970 act is different from what existed earlier.
act2005is that even after a patent is grantedpost grant opposition can be filed under s 25 2 for a period of one year.
the reason is obvious.
the legislature intended to obliterate appeal from pre grant proceedingswhich existed earlier.
for some unknown reasons the amended ss 116 and 117a2 were not brought into force till 2 4 07 whereas the concept of pre grant and post grant oppositions were brought into force w e f 1 1 2005 this is where the legislative intent got defeated during the interregnum.
respondent no 3in both the cases preferred first appeals to the high court u s 116 as it then stood.
one more aspect needs to be mentioned.
under the patents amendment act2005appeal is provided to the appellate board against the order of the controller under s 254 however that statutory appeal is maintainable only in post grant opposition proceedings whereas respondent no 3 herein has instituted first appeals under the law then prevailing challenging the order rejecting pre grant opposition dated 23 8 06.
no 3 we are informed that there are hardly one or two matters of this nature which are pending.
amendment act1999 against orders passed by the controller in pre grant opposition proceedings.
accordingly the two civil appeals filed by the appellant herein stand disposed of with no order as to costs.
