karantha jnanapeeth awardee who was a novelist play writer essayist encyclopediationist cultural anthropologist artist writer of science environmentalist.
he was a director of the appellant institute.
it was stated that dr karanth had composed seven verses or prasangas for staging yaksharanga ballet apart from bringing in changes in the traditional form thereof on its relevant aspects namely raga tala scenic arrangement costumes etc.
these prasangas are i bhishma vijaya ii nala damayanthi iii kanakangi or kanakangi kalyana iv abhimanyu or abhimanyu vada v chitrangadha or babruvahana kalaga vi panchavati and vii.
she had joined my service as copyist and later she secured an employment in life insurance corporation of india.
apart from this she has collected and edited all my stray writings from 1924 onwards up to date in eight sumptuous volumes which are being published by mangalore university.
and i have distributed all copper and bronze vessels and utensils among my children while leaving my former home suhasa keeping only bare essential and necessary things and articles.
malini malya only.
1000 00 2 directing the defendants to pay to the plaintiff damages of rs 15000 towards infringement of her copyright on account of stating or performing abhimanyu vadha on 18 9 2001 at new delhi.
15000 00 3 directing the defendants to pay to the plaintiff interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a from 18 9 2001 till now which is 95 00.
4 directing the defendants to pay future interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a till payment of the entire amount.
by reason of a judgment and decree dated 14 11 2003the district judge udupi decreed the said suit declaring the plaintiff respondent as a person having the exclusive copyright in respect of seven prasangas and that she had acquired the same by reason of a will as a residuary legatee and the defendants appellants or their employees or agents were restrained from performing the said seven ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by dr karanth.
appellants aggrieved thereby and dissatisfied therewith preferred an appeal before the karnataka high court which was marked as r f a no 271 of 2004.
appellants are thus before us.
rajiv dhavan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of appellants in his usual fairness conceded.
additions made in the form of the said dance including the prasangas fell within the purview of originality in respect whereof copyright could be claimed.
the form of copyright as regards dramatic work as has been held by the high court stating the same to be a part of the literary work is not correct as they connote two different things.
mr g v chandrashekhar learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand would support the impugned judgment.
the copyright act1957 for shortthe act was enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to copyright.
section 2 is the interpretation section.
the word author is defined in section 2d to meani in relation to a literary or dramatic work the author of the work ii in relation to a musical work the composer iii in relation to an artistic work other than a photograph the artist iv in relation to a photograph the person taking the photograph v in relation to a cinematograph film or sound recording the producer and vi in relation to any literary dramatic musical or artistic work which is computer generated the person who causes the work to be created.
explanation.
for the purposes of this clause communication through satellite or cable or any other means of simultaneous communication to more than one household or place of residence including residential rooms of any hotel or hostel shall be deemed to be communication to the public section 2 ffa defines the word composerin relation to a musical work to mean the person who composes the music regardless of whether he records it in any form of graphical notation.
section 2o defines literary work to include computer programmes tables and compilations including computer databases.
section 13 which occurs in chapter iii of the act provides that subject to the provisions thereof and the other provisions of the said act copyright shall subsists throughout india in the following classes of works that is to say a original literary dramatic musical and artistic works b cinematograph films and c sound recording.
22 term of copyright in published literary dramatic musical and artistic works.
23 term of copyright in anonymous and pseudonymous works  1.
provided that where the identity of the author is disclosed before the expiry of the said period copyright shall subsist until sixty years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
in sub section 1references to the author shall in the case of an anonymous work of joint authorship be construed.
a where the identity of the authors is disclosed as references to that author.
b where the identity of more authors than one is disclosed as references to the author who dies last from amongst such authors.
for the purposes of this section the identity of an author shall be deemed to have been disclosed if either the identity of the author is disclosed publicly by both the author and the publisher or is otherwise established to the satisfaction of the copyright board by that author.
certain acts not to be infringement of copyright  1.
before adverting to the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties we may notice the issues framed in the suit which are i does plaintiff prove that late dr shivaramaji karanth had acquired copyright in respect of seven yakshagana prasangas and also in respect of yakshagana dramatic or theatrical form i e bhishma.
but that is not all in the will ex.
therefore necessity of mentioning copyright separately in respect of dramatic works does not arise.
broadly speaking a dramatic work may also come within the purview of literary work being a part of dramatic literature.
we must however notice that the provisions the act make a distinction between the literary work and dramatic work.
keeping in view the statutory provisions there can not be any doubt whatsoever that copyright in respect of performance of dance would not come within the purview of the literary work but would come within the purview of the definition of dramatic work.
we however do not mean to suggest that any act of literary work will be outside the purview of the will dated 18 6 1994 our exercise in this behalf was only for the purpose of clarifying the provisions of the act with reference to the findings arrived at by the high court.
it was also not a case where respondent in any manner whatsoever waived her right.
a declaratory decree therefore was passed.
costumes choreography and direction by dr karanth the appellants can do so only in accordance with the provisions of the copyrights act1957 in view of copyright in seven prasangas vesting with the plaintiff.
the courts while passing a decree for permanent injunction would avoid multiplicity of proceedings.
in r g anand vs m s delux films ors 1978.
2 where the same idea is being developed in a different manner it is manifest that the source being common similarities are bound to occur.
in other words in order to be actionable the copy must be a substantial and material one which at once leads to the conclusion that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.
3 one of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there has been a violation of copyright is to see if the reader spectator or the viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy of the original.
4 where the theme is the same but is presented and treated differently so that the subsequent work becomes a completely new work no question of violation of copyright arises.
a violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy it must be proved by clear and cogent evidence after applying the various tests laid down by the case law discussed above.
7 where.
even so if the viewer after seeing the film gets a totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original play violation of the copyright may be said to be proved.
1 scc 12007 indlaw sc 1341this court held the copyright act is not concerned with the original idea but with the expression of thought.
thus if some performance or dance is carried out within the purview of the said clause the order of injunction shall not be applicable.
appeal dismissed.
