the state of uttar pradesh vide its office memorandum dated 25 10 2004 constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the honourable minister of revenue to suggest its recommendations for transfer of prisons situated in the congested areas of various districts.
after conducting its second and final meeting on 10th.
as per the schedule this shifting was to be done in two phases 1 st phase 1 district jail shahjahanpur 2 district jail azamgarh 3 district jail jaunpur and 4 district jail moradabad 2 nd phase 1 district jail badaun 2 district jail varanasi 3 district jail barielly and 4 district jail muzaffarnagar.
the government case is that the district jail is located in a densely populated area of the city and is overcrowded housing as many as 1869 prisoners while having a capacity of only 511.
thereafter the state government constituted a committee under the chairmanship of chief secretary government of u p vide office memorandum dated 12 9 2007 to evaluate and consider the shifting of prisons identified to be shifted in the first phase.
this committee was also to evaluate and recommend the means for modernisation of existing old prisons.
however the provisions of section 5a inquiry were dispensed with.
2 scc 377 2008 indlaw sc 2494 having thus stated the high court dismissed the writ petition.
before this court the appellants broadly raised the following arguments 1 whether or not the state government was justified in acquiring the said pieces of fertile agricultural land when there were alternative sites of unfertile banjar land available.
2 whether or not the state government was justified in dispensing with the inquiry which is mandated to be conducted under section 5a of the act especially when one year elapsed between the notifications u s 4 and the one u s 6 they further stated that the high court had erred insofar as it upheld the factum of urgency in the absence of a categorical finding an enquiry under section 5a would have been detrimental to public interest.
committee was formed matter was discussed at a leisurely pace at various levels and there is no material fact to justify the abridgement of the appellants right of raising an objection to acquisition and of a hearing under section 5a of the act.
admittedly the land acquisition act a pre constitutional legislation of colonial vintage is a drastic law being expropriatory in nature as it confers on the state a power which affects person s property right.
the said definition having suffered several amendments has assumed the character of an inclusive one.
any attempt by the state to acquire land by promoting a public purpose to benefit a particular group of people or to serve any particular interest at the cost of the interest of a large section of people especially of the common people defeats the very concept of public purpose.
in construing the concept of public purpose the mandate of art 13 of the constitution that any pre constitutional law can not in any way take away or abridge rights conferred under part iii must be kept in mind.
by judicial interpretation the contents of these part iii rights are constantly expanded.
the courts must examine these questions very carefully when little indians lose their small property in the name of mindless acquisition at the instance of the state.
this caveat has become necessary because the judiciary is not a mere umpire as some assume but an activist catalyst in the constitutional scheme.
in other words public purpose must be viewed through the prism of constitutional values as stated above.
in dlf qutab enclave complex educational charitable trust vs state of haryana and ors 2003 5 scc 622 2003 indlaw sc 124this court construed the statute on town planning law and held expropriatory statute as is well known must be strictly construed.
8 scc 705 2007 indlaw sc 554wherein this court construed the status of a person s right to property after deletion of art 191f from part iii by referring to various international covenants namely the declaration of human and civil rights this court held that even though right to property has ceased to be a fundamental right but it would however be given an express recognition as a legal right and also as a human right.
initially section 5a was not there in the land acquisition act1894 but the same was inserted long ago by the land acquisition amendment act1923 vide s 3 of act 38 of 1923.
however the judges found that there was no such provision in the act.
gazette of india pt.
the importance and scheme of section 5a was construed by this court in several cases.
air 1964 sc 1217 1963 indlaw sc 141 speaking through justice k n wanchoo as his lordship then was.
the right to file objections under section 5a is a substantial right when a person s property is being threatened with acquisition and we can not accept that that right can be taken away as if by a side wind.
in that case the court was considering the importance of rights under section 5a vis vis s 171 and s 171.
a of the act.
but even in such cases i e cases of urgency or unforeseen emergencyenquiry contemplated by section 5 a can not ipso facto be dispensed with which is clear from sub s 4 of s 17 of the act.
acceptance of such contention or upholding of this argument will make sub s 4 of s 17 totally otiose redundant and nugatory.
this court also held that in view of the ratio in union of india vs mukesh hans2004 8 scc 14 2004 indlaw sc 1413sub s 4 of s 17 can not be pressed into service by officers who are negligent and lethargic in initiating acquisition proceedings.
a meeting for selection of the suitable site for construction was held on 27th june2008and the proposal for such acquisition and construction was sent to the director land acquisition on 2nd of july2008 this was in turn forwarded to the state government by the director on 22nd of july2008 after due consideration of the forwarded proposal and documents the state government issued the s 4 notification along with s 17 notification on 21st of august2008 these notifications were published in local newspapers on 24th of september2008.
the construction of jail is certainly in public interest and for such construction land may be acquired.
appeals allowed.
