accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
subsequently lw 3 pathan basheerunnisa sent her grandson pathan inayatullah khan lw 4 to the house of the parents of the deceased to inform them about the incident.
the father of the deceased pathan yasin khan lw 1 and her mother pathan shamshad begum lw 2 were present at that time.
lw 1lodged the report which was registered by sri k srinivasarao lw 16the sub inspector of police.
and further a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence u s 304 b ipc both the sentences shall run concurrently.
the undergone remand period of a 1 to a 3 shall be set off u s 428 cr.
this gave rise to filing of the present appeals.
accused were charged with offences under sections 498a and 304b of the ipc the fir in the present case was lodged by lw 1who is the father of the deceased.
according to this witness on 23rd january2002the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused pathan hussain basha and he had accepted to give rs 25000 in marriage.
he had given only rs 15000 and had agreed to pay rs 10000 after four months.
in the marriage he had also given a gold chain a double bed an iron safe and other items.
the witness could pay only rs 500 upon which the accused refused to take the deceased to the matrimonial home and went away.
all three accused used to beat her for the remaining amount of dowry.
the saree was removed she was taken to the hospital where she was reported to have brought dead.
according to this witness also in the beginning they were happy however after some time she used to hear some quarrel between the deceased and the accused persons.
after bringing the soaps she went to the house of the accused persons and found that the accused was absent and the deceased was hanging on one side of the room.
after seeing this she raised cries and people came to the scene.
according to him the accused persons used to harass the deceased primarily for non payment of the amount of dowry as a result of which she was forced to commit suicide.
in fact there is no dispute to the fact that the deceased died of hanging.
they were married in the year 2002 and she committed suicide by hanging on 15th.
accused pathan hussain basha when he had gone to the parental house of the deceased demanded different items like fan ring and rs 1000 in cash and the balance of the agreed dowry amount.
since these demands were not satisfied instantaneously he even left the deceased at her parental house.
1 the death of a woman should be caused by burns or fatal injury or otherwise than under normal circumstances 2 such death should have occurred within seven years of her marriage 3 she must have been subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband and 4 such cruelty or harassment should be for or in connection with demand for dowry.
11 alongside insertion of section 304 b in ipc the legislature also introduced section 113 b of the evidence act which lays down when the question as to whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for or in connection with any demand for dowry the court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
12 explanation appended to section.
113 b lays down that for the purpose of this sectiondowry death shall have the same meaning as in section 304 b of indian penal code.
13 if.
amongst others lapse of time between the date of marriage and the date of death is also a relevant consideration for the court while examining whether the essential ingredients of the provision are satisfied or not in a given case.
in the case of ashok kumar v state of haryana 2010 12 scc 350 2010 indlaw sc 502this court explained these terms in some elucidation and the effect of the deeming fiction appearing in the section as follows 11 the appellant was charged with an offence under section 304 b of the code.
secondly that soon before her death she had been subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or any of the relatives of the husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry then such a death shall be called dowry death and the husband or the relative as the case may be will be deemed to have caused such a death.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
the expression in connection with the marriage can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
the expression in connection with the marriage even in common parlance and on its plain language has to be understood generally.
this court in ran singh v state of haryana2008 4 scc 700 2008 indlaw sc 120 held that the payments which are customary payments for example given at the time of birth of a child or other ceremonies as are prevalent in the society or families to the marriage would not be covered under the expression dowry.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
this court held that the word dowry should be any property or valuable given or agreed to be given in connection with the marriage.
s 4 of the act is the penal section and demanding a dowryas defined under s 2 of the act is punishable under this section.
we have examined the provisions of s 2 of the act in a very limited sphere to deal with the contentions raised in regard to the applicability of the provisions of section 304 b of the code.
we are of the considered view that the concept of reasonable time is the best criteria to be applied for appreciation and examination of such cases.
16 scc 155 2008 indlaw sc 1962 held that the legislative object in providing such a radius of time by employing the words soon before her death is to emphasise the idea that her death should in all probabilities has been the aftermath of such cruelty or harassment.
however the expression would normally imply that there has to be reasonable time gap between t he cruelty inflicted and the death in question.
thus the cruelty harassment and demand of dowry should not be so ancient whereafter the couple and the family members have lived happily and that it would result in abuse of the said protection.
such demand or harassment may not strictly and squarely fall within the scope of these provisions unless definite evidence was led to show to the contrary.
the cruelty and harassment by the husband or any relative could be directly relatable to or in connection with any demand for dowry.
dowry is something which existed in our country for a considerable time and the legislature in its wisdom considered it appropriate to enact the law relating to dowry prohibition so as to ensure that any party to the marriage is not harassed or treated with cruelty for satisfaction of demands in consideration and for subsistence of the marriage.
in contradistinction to this aspect the legislature has applied the concept of deeming fiction to the provisions of section 304 b where other ingredients of section 304 b are satisfied in that event the husband or all relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death.
applying these principles to the facts of the present case it is clear that the ingredients of section 304b read with section 498a ipc are completely satisfied in the present case.
the accused did not care to explain as to how the death of his wife occurred.
it was expected of the accused to explain as to how and why his wife died as well as his conduct immediately prior and subsequent to the death of the deceased.
there being no rebuttal thereto there is no occasion to interfere in the judgments of the courts under appeal.
accused pathan hussain basha and pathan nazeer abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
the appeals are partially accepted to the extent afore indicated.
appeals partly allowed.
