About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
Thereafter P W 9 prepared his own report exhibit P 4 and sent it alongwith exhibit P 1 and MO 1 to the Police Station at Renigunta.
When the Police officers went to the village they 366 found the accused tied to a pole.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
There was no fracture.
They insulted him.
He felt giddy and was about to lose consciousness.
P W 1 came upon him with a knife to stab him.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
He submitted that the version of the accused that the occurrence took place at about 10 pm was substantiated by what was mentioned in exhibit P 15 the wound certificate given by PW 13 the Medical officer in respect of the injuries which he found on the person of the accused.
We are unable to find any substance in the submissions made by the learned Counsel for the appellant.
below the arm pit on the left side.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P W 1 and himself.
We do not think that an injury of the nature received by the deceased could have been caused in the manner suggested by the accused.
The learned Counsel for the appellant advanced the usual argument submitted in all cases where an order of acquittal is reversed namely that where two views of the evidence are possible the accused is entitled to the benefit of the doubt arising from the two views and that where the Trial Court has taken a possible view and acquitted the accused the High Court should not interfere with the order of acquittal merely because another view is also possible.
At one time it was thou ht that an order of acquittal could be set aside for substantial and compelling reasons only and Courts used to launch on a search to discover those substantial and compelling reasons.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup s case.
This of course is not a new principle.
But fanciful and remote possibilities must be left out of account.
vs State of UP  Anr1.
The appeal is dismissed.
