DK Sen Gopal Subramonium and RN Poddar for the Appellant.
Ex parte for the Respondents.
Further the section does not provide nor is any rule brought to our notice which enjoins upon the Administrator to give a hearing to dealer who seeks permission under this Section and give reasons in case he decides to refuse the permission.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
 In Harakchand Banthria s case supra this Court has further pointed out that even though import of gold into India had been banned considerable quantities of contraband gold were finding their way into the country through illegal channels affecting the national economy and hampering the country s economic stability and progress that the Customs Department was not in a position to effectively combat the smuggling over the long borders and coast line that therefore anti smuggling measures had to be supplemented by a detailed system of control over internal transactions and that the Gold Control Act 1968 was passed for this purpose.
In fact sec.
Having regard to this position which obtains in the case sec.
We may indicate that the same provision section 28 was challenged before the Patna High Court in Bihar State Bullion Merchants  Association vs Union of lndia1 and the Gujarat High Court in Ramanlal Purshottamamdas Chokshi vs Union of India  Others 2 and these High Courts have upheld its validity.
We approve the view taken in those cases As regards the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court in Harakchand Banthia s case supra while declaring unamended sec.
276 in several of its clauses referred to certain concepts which Administrator was required to take into account and these concepts were regarded as indefinite uncertain and vague.
e and public interest  in cl.
276 this Court struck down sec.
28 by reference to which the Administrator is required to exercise his power.
In the absence of parity of situation or circumstances the doctrine of parity of reasoning cannot be invoked.
SR Appeal allowed.
