1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India hereinafter referred to as the Corporation  which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months  notice or salary in lieu thereof.
As mentioned earlier there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27000 whole time employees working in them.
Regulation 21 reads as follows 21.
 The above regulation fixed the age of retirement of an employee at 55 years while empowering the authority to extend the service of an employee at its discretion every year upto 60 years of age.
Clause 6 of that order originally read as follows 6.
Most of the insurers permitted their officers to continue in service upto 60 years of age and even beyond depending upon their efficiency.
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
An employee belonging to Class III or Class IV and a transferred employee belonging to Class I or Class II shall retire on completion of age 60 but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
All the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV irrespective of the fact whether they were transferred employees or employees appointed after 1st September 1956 were entitled to continue in service till 60 years of age but the employees belonging to Class I and Class II who were appointed to the service of the Corpora tion on or after 1st September 1956 had to retire on the completion of 58 years of age subject to the usual clause relating to premature retirement.
From the said Class III post he was promoted to the Class I post since there was no necessity to pass through a Class II post before entering a Class I post on 8101963 and was appointed as Assistant Branch Manager Admn.
Hence he was not retired on the 30th June 1984 as originally notified and allowed to continue in service.
In other words the contention of the 1st Respondent before the High Court was that since he had the fight to continue in service if he had remained in Class III only till he attained the age of 60 years as a Class III employee by virtue of the settlement and the amendment of the regula tion 19 in the year 1965 the age of retirement in his case could not be reduced to 58 years only because he had been promoted to a Class I post.
It was urged on behalf of the Corporation and the Union of India that the transferred employees and the employees who joined the service after 1st September 1956 belonged to two distinct and separate classes which had been treated differently throughout for valid reasons.
It was pleaded by them that on the establishment of the Corporation under the Act it became necessary to continue the services of the employees of the erstwhile insurers whose life insurance business was taken over by the Corporation to run the business of the Corpora tion because the Corporation had no employees of its own in the month of September 1956 when it was established.
 It has to be observed in the case before us also that the transferred employees belong to a diminishing cadre.
In almost all the public sector corporations Central services and State services 58 years age is considered to be a reasonable age at which officers can be directed to retire from their service.
In the Settlement which was arrived at between the management and the Class III and Class IV em ployees recruited after 1st September 1956 it was agreed that there should be no discrimination as regards the age of retirement between the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV categories amongst the transferred employees and the Class III and Class IV employees recruited after 1st September 1956.
Having regard to the lower emoluments and other benefits which the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV are entitled to get from the Corporation and the higher emoluments and other benefits to which officers belonging to Class I and Class II are entitled and also the nature of their work and the powers enjoyed by them we are of the view that fixation of different ages of retirement to the different classes of employees would not by itself be violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution.
In the Staff Regulations 1956 and the Staff Regulations 1960 there was again a distinction made between the transferred employees and employees re cruited after 1st September 1956.
In Govindarajulu vs The Management of Union Bank of India  Ors Writ Petition No 5486 of 1980 the High Court of Madras rejected the said claim by its judgment dated 2111.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
On the absorption of the services of the servants of the previous railway companies it became necessary for the Indian Railway Administration to frame rules with regard to their conditions of service including the determination of the age of retirement of those railway employees.
Clause b however provided that every ministerial railway serv ant who had entered the Government service on or before 31st March 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned either in sub clause i or sub clause ii thereof was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years.
As may be seen from that rule the classification of the employees was made on the basis of the date of entry into the service of the Government.
On appeal the judgment of the High Court was affirmed by this Court in Railway Board vs A Pitchumani supra.
In that decision this Court has no doubt observed that generally speaking there should not be any difference in the age of retirement of existing workmen and others to be employed in future unless there are special circumstances justifying such difference.
It may be so.
