MKD Namboodary for the Petitioner in SLP Civil N o 6998 of 1988.
There will be no order as to costs.
It provides power to Parliament to enact law for establishme nt of Administrative Tribunals for adjudication of disput es with regard to service matters.
In pursuance of the provisions of the Act the Centr al Government has established the Central Administrative Trib u nal with a Bench at Chandigarh whose order has been cha l lenged before us.
Jurisdiction powers and authority of t he Central Administrative Tribunal 27 1 Save as otherwise expressly provided in th is Act the Central Administrative Tribunal shall exercise on and from the appointed day all the jurisdiction powers a nd authority exercisable immediately before that day by a ll courts except Supreme Court in relation to a recruitment and matters concerning recrui t ment to any All India Service or to any civil service of the Union or a civil post under the Union or to a po st connected with defence or in the defence services being in either case a post filled by a civilian b all service matters concerning Similar are the powers and authority of the State Ser v ice Tribunal under sec.
Section 27 provides for finality of t he orders of the Tribunal.
Because the Tribunal is just a substitute to t he civil court and High Court.
But the Court in a case in which an order of dismissal of a public servant is impugned is n ot concerned to decide whether the sentence imposed provid ed it is justified by the rules is appropriate having rega rd to the gravity of misdemeanour established.
If the High Court is satisfied that if some but not all of t he findings of the Tribunal were unreasonable the order of the Governor on whose powers by the rules no restrictions in determining the appropriate punishment are placed w as final and the High Court had no jursidiction to direct t he Governor to review the penalty for as we have alrea dy observed the order of dismissal passed by a competent a u thority on a public servant if the conditions of the co n stitutional protection have been complied with is n ot justifiable.
 This proposition in Dhirajlal s case was explained a nd the statement of law in Bidyabhushan s case was affirmed in State of Maharashtra vs BK Takkamore  Ors  It was case of supersession of the Corporation.
Considering all these facts this Court felt that it would not be fair to direct a low paid class IV employee to face the hazards of a fresh enquiry.
If it is his case that he is not t he government servant who has been in fact convicted he c an also agitate this question in appeal revision or review.
He was found guilty of t he charge framed against him.
