It came to the conclusion that exhibit P 1 did not in law create a valid lease between the co owners and the tenants.
An appeal by the tenant also failed but here again the above point was not taken.
If there is any dispute which arises between the parties as to whether the particular application falls within the jurisdiction of the tribunal it is the tribunal which is competent to decide that dispute and determine whether the particular matter falls within its jurisdiction.
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
But we think Sri Parasaran is right in saying that since the Rent Controller has no jurisdiction to entertain an application except by a landlord or a tenant the ques tion of title to the property is one on which his very jurisdiction depends.
In that case the Revenue Divisional Officer in 563 certain earlier proceedings had held that a particular village was not an estate and this had been confirmed by the District Collector and the High Court.
The Supreme Court however reversed the judgment of the High Court.
If by an erroneous interpretation of the statute the court holds that it has no jurisdiction the decision will not operate as res judicata.
In order to operate as res judicata the finding must be one disposing of a matter directly and substantially in issue in the former suit and the issue should have been heard and finally decided by the court trying such suit.
It has long been held that a question of title in a Small Cause suit can be regarded as incidental only to the substantial issue in the suit and cannot operate 8as res judicata in a subsequent suit in which the question of title is directly raised  .
If the civil court in this case had come to the conclusion that there is a relationship of a landlord and a tenant and that the LIC was entitled to recover the rent from the tenants it will have to pass a decree in favour of the LIC on the basis of the fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller.
