In C A 26058 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
This was not allowed by the Income tax Officer and on appeal this order was confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
The Commissioner has come up in appeal pursuant to special leave against both these judgments.
Indian Act.
The question for decision is as to how this proviso is to be construed.
From 1922 to 1939 in order to be taxable income profits and gains had to be received or had to accrue in British India.
263 there were six heads of income chargeable to income tax.
This section was introduced in 1922 before which under the Indian Act of 1918 a loss under one head of income could not be set off against income under another head the taxability of income arising from each head being separate.
The Privy Council in Arunachalam Chettiar vs Commissioner of Income tax1 held that this section was meant for a set off of profits arising under different heads and not where profits and losses had to be adjusted if they arose under the same head.
Vide also Corporation of The City of Toronto vs Attorney General for Canada 1.
Thus the mere use of the words loss of profits or gains to be set off against profits and gains would not be sufficient to restrict the scope of the proviso to the profits and losses arising under the head business in the two territories i e British India and the Indian States.
41950 5 269 argument does not take note of the definition of total income total world income  and chargeability of total income under section 3 or the provisions of section 4 where in the case of a resident total income  includes income profits and gains accruing within or without I British India.
But then it was said that as the profits or gains of business in an Indian State were exempted from payment of tax in British India business in section 10 must mean business in British India.
That would be straining the language of section 10 and would necessitate addition of words in section 10 which are not there in the section.
We find it unnecessary to refer to them because we have indicated above what is the correct sphere of a proviso and what proviso i to section 241 means.
Appeals dismissed.
