this appeal with special leave is directed against the judgment and order of the labour appellate tribunal of india in a dispute regarding the workers claim for bonus.
during the year 1948 the appellant made a profit of rs 1197648 11 9.
it paid 24 3 per cent.
dividend on ordinary shares being the maximum that could be paid under the public companies limitation of dividend ordinance of 1948 and also paid to the workers their full share of bonus at annas 4 in a rupee of their basic earnings.
during the year 1949 the selling rates for cloth and yarn were controlled by the government and were approximately 4 per cent.
below those obtained in 1948.
the basic wages were increased from the 1st december 1948 by order of the government of uttar pradesh and the total wages paid were therefore higher than those in the previous year.
there was moreover indiscipline amongst the workers and production suffered.
there was a strike in the month of october and the mills were closed for nearly a month.
further the management were unable to secure cotton which resulted in the curtailment of the working hours.
as a result of all these circumstances the appellant suffered a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10.
a sum of rs 250000 being the excess reserve for taxation was written back and a sum of rs 1001871 13 5 being the amount of reserve transferred from the investment account was also brought in.
an aggregate sum of rs 1251871 13 5 was thus brought into the balance sheet by these two transfers.
the trading loss was deducted from this amount leaving a credit balance of rs 749308 11 7 and that amount was shown as the profit for the year 1949 in the balance sheet for that year.
was paid to the ordinary shareholders.
on the 4th may 1950 the secretary of the respondent union petitioned to the provincial conciliation officer textile that there was more production in 1949 than in 1948 that there was no reason to hold that the profit in 1949 was less than in the previous year and that the rate of bonus was wrongly reduced and asked that bonus for 1949 should also be paid at the rate of annas 4 per rupee.
the industrial dispute which thus arose was referred for enquiry and recording of an award to the regional conciliation board textile kanpur.
the conciliation board by a majority decision repelled the contention of the appellant and awarded the payment of bonus at annas 4 per rupee.
on an appeal taken by the appellant to the industrial court textiles and hosiery kanpur the industrial court accepted the contention of the appellant allowed the appeal and set aside the award.
the appellant filed this appeal against that decision after obtaining special leave from this court.
both the industrial court as well as the labour appellate tribunal found as a fact that there was a trading loss of rs 502563 1 10 during the year 1949 and also.
that the dividend of 2434 per cent.
the question which therefore arises for our consideration is mainly whether the workers are entitled to the payment of a bonus in spite of the employer having worked at a loss during the year and incidentally whether the workers have any right title or interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the previous years.
this definition was adopted by stirling j in in re eddystone marine insurance co l r i894 w n 30 webster s international dictionary defines bonus as something given in addition to what is ordinarily received by or strictly due to the recipient.
the oxford concise dictionary defines it as something to the good into the bargain and as an example gratuity to workmen beyond their wages.
this imports the conception of a boon a gift or a gratuity otherwise described as an ex gratia payment.
the word bonus has however acquired a secondary meaning in the sphere of industrial relations.
it is classified amongst the methods of wage payment.
it has been used especially in the united states of america to designate an award in addition to the contractual wage.
it is usually intended as a stimulus to extra effort but sometimes represents the desire of the employer to share with his workers the fruits of their common enterprise.
vide encyclopaedia britannica volume iii page 856.
the pocket part of the corpus juris secundum volume xi under the heading as compensation for services quotes the following passage from attorney general v city of woburn 317 mass 465 the word bonus is commonly used to denote an increase in salary or wages in contracts of employment.
the same would ripen into a legally enforceable claim.
to a similar effect are the observations in kenicott v supervisors of wayne county 1873 83 u s 452 21 l ed.
but second the meaning of the word bonus is not given to it by the objection.
the demand for bonus becomes an industrial claim when either or both these conditions are satisfied.
the principles for the grant of bonus were discussed and a formula was evolved by the full bench of the labour appellate tribunal in millowners association bombay v rashtreeya mill mazdoor sangh bombay 1950.
both labour and capital contribute to the earnings of the industrial concern it is fair that labour should derive some benefit if there is a surplus after meeting prior or necessary charges and the following were prescribed as the first charges on gross profits viz 1 provision for depreciation 2 reserves for rehabilitation 3 a return at 6 per cent.
the surplus that remained after meeting the aforesaid deductions would be available for distribution as bonus.
if in any particular year the working of the industrial concern has resulted in loss there is no basis nor justification for a demand for bonus.
bonus is not a deferred wage.
because if it were so it would necessarily rank for precedence before dividends the dividends can only be paid out of profits and unless and until profits are made no occasion or question can also arise for distribution of any sum as bonus amongst the employees.
this has been clearly recognised even in the various decisions of the labour appellate tribunal e g nizam sugar factory ltd hyderabad v their workmen 1952.
i l l j 386 textile mills madhya pradesh v their workmen 1952 2 l l j 625and famous cine laboratory v their workmen 1953.
whereas the industrial court declined to grant the respondent any relief because the working of the appellant during the year had resulted in a loss the labour appellate tribunal made a special case for the respondent in spite of its concurrence with that finding of the industrial court.
it is significant to observe that this principle was accepted by the labour appellate tribunal itself.
as at present advised a claim for bonus which had been rested on profits earned should ordinarily be determined on the basis of the profits earned in the year under claim and that the scale of bonus should be determined on the quantum of profits earned in the year.
there may be special cases and we consider the case before us to be one where social justice would demand that labour should have bonus for the year where for that very year capital had not only a reasonable return but much in excess of that.
the labour appellate tribunal did not accept the contention of the respondent that bonus should be linked to dividends nor did it rest its decision on the respondent having a right title and interest in the reserves and the undistributed profits of the appellant.
linking of bonus to dividend would obviously create difficulties.
even on a winding up of a company the property of the company would be applied in satisfaction of its liabilities pari passu and unless the articles of association of the company otherwise provided in distribution amongst the members according to their rights and interest in the company.
the employees would in no event be entitled to any share or interest in the assets and the capital of the company.
the shareholders only would be entitled to such benefit and the mere fact that dividends were declared and paid to the shareholders out of such reserves and undistributed profits would not entitle the workers to demand bonus when in fact the working of the industrial concern during the particular year had showed a loss.
no further claimed payment of bonus out of those reserves or undistributed profits can therefore survive.
the labour force which earns the profits of a particular year by collaborating with the employers is distinct from the one which contributed to the profits of the previous years and there is no continuity between the labour forces which are employed in the industrial concern during the several years.
in our full bench decision see 1950 2 l l j 1247 we carefully considered the question of social justice in relation to bonus and there we equated the rights and liabilities of employers and workmen with a view to achieving a just formula for the computation of bonus.
we may before concluding refer to an argument which was addressed to us by mr isaacs the learned counsel for the respondent that this court under article 136 should not interfere with the decisions of the tribunals set up by the industrial disputes act 1947.
this contention can be shortly answered by referring to our decision in bharat bank ltd delhi v employees of the bharat bank ltd delhi 1950 s c r 459 1950 indlaw sc 48 where we held that the industrial tribunals were tribunals within the meaning of article 136 and further that article 136 has vested in this court exceptional and overriding power to interfere where it reaches the conclusion that a person has been dealt with arbitrarily or that a court or tribunal within the territory of india has not given a fair deal to a litigant.
