the main question raised in this appeal by special leave at the instance of state of gujarat and the collector of sabarkantha against the gujarat high court s judgment and order dated january 30311975 allowing the writ petition of the respondent is whether once the competent authority under s 24 i of the bombay merged territories and areas jagirs abolition.
act1953 bombay act.
no xxxix of 1954 declares that a particular jagir is a proprietary one a further inquiry under s 37 2 of the bombay land revenue code bombay act.
No v of 1879 with a view to determining whether the jagirdar had any rights to mines or mineral products in his jagir granted or recognised under any contract grant or law for the time being in force or by custom or usage is competent.
the facts giving rise to the said question are these by hajur order no 116 dated october 271933the respondent maharaj shri amar singji himatsingji was granted daljitgarh jagir comprising of 10 villages mentioned in the said order in jivarak for maintenance by the then ruler of idar by another hajur order no 807 dated january 121934the respondent was given a further grant in jivarak of 3 villages mentioned in that order with effect from october 11933 by yet another hajur order no 964 dated november 21194714 villages including kapoda and isarwada were granted in jivarak to the respondent by the ruler of idar in substitution of the villages mentioned in the previous two orders.
according to the respondent by these grants parvanas read together he was given full proprietary rights in the soil of the said villages that is to say it was a proprietary jagir that was granted to him by the then ruler.
admittedly on the coming into force of the bombay merged territories and areas jagirs abolition act1953 hereinafter referred to as the act i e with effect from respondent s daljitgarh jagir stood abolished and all his rights in the jagir villages save as expressly provided by or under the act were extinguished and the respondent became entitled to compensation under s 11 of the act.
it appears that for the purpose of implementing the provisions of the act the competent authority collector of district sabarkantha held an inquiry into the question whether the respondent s jigir was proprietary involving any right or interest in the soil or non proprietary involving mere assignment of land revenue or rent due to government under s 2 4 i of the act and having regard to the documentary and other evidence led before it the competent authority by its order dated september 81959held that the daljitgarh jagir of the respondent was a proprietary jagir.
aggrieved by this order passed by the collector on february 231973the respondent preferred a writ petition special civil application no 1224 of 1973 under art 227 of the constitution to the gujarat high court and writ of certiorari quashing the order dated february 231973 and a direction restraining the collector from further proceeding with the inquiry under s 372 of the land revenue code were sought.
accordingly the high court set aside the collector s order and further issued an injunction permanently restraining the state of gujarat and the collector from initiating any inquiry under s 372 in respect of the respondents rights to mines and mineral products in the said villages.
the appellants seek to challenge the said judgment and order of the gujarat high court in this appeal.
learned counsel for the appellants has contended that the high court has adopted an erroneous view of the scope and ambit of the inquiry contemplated under s 24i of the act by the competent authority in as much as under the said provision the competent authority had power merely to decide the question whether the respondents jagir was a proprietary or a non proprietary jagir and had no dower or jurisdiction to determine whether on the appointed date that is on august 11954 when the act came into force the respondent had subsisting rights to mines and minerals products in the jagir villages so as to be saved under s 10 of the act.
he urged that it would be for the collector acting under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code to decide the latter question in an inquiry initiated under that provision.
according to learned counsel the mere circumstance that the respondent s jagir was found under s 24.
i to be proprietary was not tantamount to the establishment by the respondent of his rights to mines and mineral products in the villages of his jagir for which there must be an actual grant or contract or law or custom or usage recognising such rights and this could only be determined by the collector by holding an inquiry under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code and therefore the high court was clearly in error in coming to the conclusion that the inquiry initiated by the second appellant under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code was incompetent or without jurisdiction.
he urged that having regard to such determination that was made by the competent authority under s 2 4 i of the act it would be clear that a further inquiry into the respondent s rights to mines and mineral products particularly gravel and stones under s 372 of the code would be misconceived and incompetent.
he therefore urged that the high court was right in quashing the collector s order dated february 231973.
the general question is whether once the competent authority under s 2 4 i of the act declares that the particular jagir is a proprietary one a further inquiry under s 372 of the land revenue code with a view to determining whether the jagirdar had rights to mines and mineral products in such jagir subsisting on the appointed date is competent.
ithe further inquiry initiated by the collector under s 372 was misconceived and uncalled for.
dealing with the first question which is of a general character it is clear that the answer thereto depends upon the true scope and ambit of the inquiry under s 2 4 i of the act and to determine the same it will be necessary to consider the scheme and object of the act and in particular the purpose of the said inquiry.
s 2vii defines jagirdar as meaning a holder of a jagir village and includes his co sharer.
i whether a jagir is proprietary or non proprietary iiwhether any land is ghatked or jiwai or iiiwhetherany person is a permanent holder.
as a consequence of the abolition of jagirs under s 3 all jagir villages became unalienated villages and therefore under s 4 it has been provided that all jagir villages shall be liable to the payment of land revenue in accordance with the provisions of the code and the rules made thereunder and the provisions of the code and the rules relating to unalienated land shall apply to such villages.
s 11 1 provides for the quantum of compensation payable to a non proprietary jagirdar on account of abolition of his jagir and extinguishment of his rights while s 112 makes similar provision for quantum of compensation to a proprietary jagirdar on account of the abolition of his jagir and extinguishment of his rights.
the rest of the sections are if formal character and not material for our purposes.
in the first place the preamble and s 3 of the act clearly show that the object of the enactment is to abolish jagirs of all kinds in the merged territories and merged areas in the state of bombay and to convert all jagir villages into unalienated villages liable to the payment of land revenue in accordance with the provisions of the bombay land revenue code.
secondly compensation is made payable under s 11 of the act to jagirdars whose jagirs and other incidental rights have been extinguished but it will be pertinent to note that no provision has been made for payment of compensation in respect of rights to mines and mineral products in a jagir village obviously because if by the grant in question the jagirdar has not been given any rights to mines and mineral products no compensation would be payable and if there be a grant of mines and mineral products the same have been saved to the jagirdar under s 10 of the act.
there is yet one more aspect emerging from the definition of the expression proprietary jagir which leads to the same inference.
proprietary jagir has been defined in s 2xviii to mean a jagir in respect of which the jagirdar under the terms of a grant or agreement or by custom or usage is entitled to any rights or interest in the soil.
in other words the competent authority holding an inquiry under s 24 i can come to the conclusion that a particular jagir is proprietary if it finds that the jagirdar under the terms of a grant or agreement is entitled to some rights or interest in the soil other than mines or mineral products.
it is therefore not possible to accept the contention of learned counsel for the respondents that a determination under s 2 4 i of the act to the effect that a particular jagir is a proprietary one necessarily implies that the grantee is entitled to mines and mineral products in the villages comprised in the grant especially when having regard to the definition given in s 2xviii a jagir could be proprietary without a right to mines and mineral products.
in other words our answer to the general question raised above would be that even after the competent authority has declared a particular jagir to be a proprietary one under s 24.
i of the act a further inquiry under s 372 of the bombay land revenue code into the question whether a jagirdar had any subsisting rights to mines and mineral products in the jagir villages on the appointed date would be competent unless the grant of a right to mines and mineral products or the actual enjoyment thereof in keeping with the grant happens to be the basis of the determination under s 2 4 1 of the act.
under sub s 3the decision of the collector under sub s 2 is rendered final subject to the result of a suit that is required to be instituted in a civil court within one year of the said.
besides while determining the proprietary nature of the grant under s 241 of the act the competent authority had on evidence led before it alluded among others to the respondent s right to excavate and sell gravel and stones and enjoyment thereof by the respondent.
