these two appeals involve identical questions and therefore are disposed of by this common judgment after noticing the factual position so far as they are relevant.
the appellants question correctness of the judgment rendered by a division bench of the madras high court which held that the withdrawal of benefits extended to the appellants as subsidy was in order.
the appellants questioned legality or the g o ms No 989 dated 1 9 1988 directing discontinuance of purchase tax exemption in case of mills which exceeded the ceiling of rs 300 lakes during the period of five years and government letter dated 28 12 1988 which made the aforesaid g o ms No 989 of 1 9 1988 operative retrospectively from 1 4 1988.
initially the writ petitions were filed before the high court but after constitution of the tamil nadu taxation special tribunal hereinafter referred to as the tribunal the writ petitions were transferred to the tribunal which held that on application of the principles of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation the withdrawal of benefit was not sustainable in law.
the state questioned correctness of the judgment before the high court which as noted above held the g o ms and the govt.
letter to be valid reversing the conclusions arrived at by the tribunal.
the judgment forms subject matter of challenge in these appeals.
in support of the appeals the primary stands raised by the appellants are.
the doctrines of promissory estoppel and legitimate expectation were applicable to the facts of the case.
there was no material to show existence of any overriding public interest to rule out application of the aforesaid doctrine there was no scope for retrospective withdrawal.
in any event before withdrawal of the benefits no opportunity of hearing was granted.
the materials which were produced before the high court and on the basis of which it is decided that the decision of the government is in order were not even pleaded in the pleadings and during arguments.
the contents of the files which were produced before the high court and on which reliance was placed to hold against the appellants are not known to the appellants.
in other words there was clear violation of the principles of natural justice.
in any event the retrospective withdrawal of the benefit on the basis of an executive decision is impermissible.
in response learned counsel for the respondent state submitted that the appellants have failed to adduce any evidence or material to show that were in any way induced by any governmental action to set up industries.
in fact the government of tamil nadu vide g o ms.
No 1294 dated 24 10 1975 granted exemption from purchase tax on sugarcane in favour of sugar mills established in co operative and public sectors in the form of annual subsidy equivalent to purchase tax on sugarcane.
there was no scope for any mis understanding that it applied to any private sector participation in the sphere of sugar manufacturing.
the commercial productions were started in case of appellants in c a No 86062002 i e ponni sugars erode ltd v govt.
on 22 1 1986.
the appellants only made representation to government subsequently claiming exemption at par with the cooperative and public sector mills.
as there was no inducement or assurance the question of any promissory estoppel did not arise.
so far as legitimate expectation aspect is concerned it is too well known that the benefit extended can be withdrawn and with this knowledge if the units are set up the principle of legitimate expectation does not apply.
the high court recorded the following findings on the factual aspects.
the respondents have established their units prior to the government orders granting the subsidy and they have no vested right to claim exemption.
no inducement was made in the government orders to establish the units.
the grant of subsidy is a concession and the government has got good reasons for modifying the scheme in public interest.
the order granting subsidy can be withdrawn in public interest.
the government has exercised their right to modify the scheme in the interest of public revenue.
with reference to the files produced certain factual conclusions were arrived at the correctness of those form the core challenge in these appeals.
estoppel is a rule of equity which has gained new dismensions in recent years.
a new class of estoppel has come to be recognized by the courts in this country as well as in england.
the doctrine of promissory estoppel has assumed importance in recent years though it was dimly noticed in some of the earlier cases.
the leading case on the subject is central london property trust ltd v high trees house ltd 1947 1 k b 130.
but that principle does not create any cause of action which did not exist before so that where a promise is made which is not supported by any consideration the promise can not bring an action on the basis of that promise.
the principle enunciated in the high trees case supra was also recognized by the house of lords in tool metal manufacturing co ltd v tungsten electric co ltd 1955.
all e r 657 1955 1 w l r 761.
that principle was adopted by this court in union of india v indo afghan agencies ltd air 1968.
sc 718 1967 indlaw sc 411 and turner morrison and co ltd v hungerford investment trust ltd 1972 1 scc 857 1972 indlaw sc 190.
doctrine of promissory estoppel has been envolved by the courts on the principles of equity to avoid injustice.
promissory estoppel is defined in black s law distionary as an estoppel which arises when there is a promise which promissor should reasonable expect to induce action or forbearance of a definite and substantial character on the part of promisee and which does include such action or forbearance and such promise is binding if injustice can be avoided only by enforcement of promise.
so far as this court is concerned it invoked the doctrine in indo afghan agencies s case 1967 indlaw sc 411 supra in which is was inter alia laid down that even though the case would not fall within the terms of section 115 of the indian evidence act 1872 in short the evidence act which enacts the rule of estoppel it would still be open to a party who had acted on a representation made by the government to claim that the government should be bound to carry out the promise made by it even though the promise was not recorded in the form of a formal contract as required by article 299 of the constitution.
see century spinning co v ulhasnagar municipal council air 1971.
sc 1021 1970 indlaw sc 341 radhakrishna v state of bihar air 1977.
sc 1496 1977 indlaw sc 282 motilal padampat sugar mills co ltd v state of u p 1979 2 scc 409 1978 indlaw sc 56 union of india v godfrey philips indian ltd 1985 4 scc 369 1985 indlaw sc 275 and dr ashok kumar maheshwari v state of u p another 1998 2 supreme 100 1998 indlaw sc 1376.
in the backdrop let us travel a little distance into the past to understand the evolution of the doctrine of promissory estoppel.
dixon j an australian jurists in grundt v great boulder gold mines prorietary ltd 1939 59 clr 641 aust laid down as under it is often said simply that the party asserting the estoppel must have been induced to act to his detriment.
that purpose is to avoid or prevent a detriment to the party asserting the estoppel by compelling the opposite party to adhere to the assumption upon which the former acted or abstained from acting.
the principle set out above was reiterated by lord denning in high trees s case supra.
this principle has been evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
it is nether in the realm of contract nor in the realm of estoppel.
no vested right as to tax holding is acquired by a person who is granted concession.
if any concession has been given it can be withdrawn at any time and no time limit should be insisted upon before it was withdrawn.
1995 1 scc 274 1994 indlaw sc 2183.
it was held that the doctrine of promissory estoppel represents a principle evolved by equity to avoid injustice.
the doctrine of legitimate expectation has an important place in the developing law of judicial review.
it is however not necessary to explore the doctrine in this case it is enough merely to note that a legitimate expectation can provide a sufficient interest to enable one who can not point to the existence of a substantive right to obtain the leave of the court to apply for judicial review.
it is generally agreed that legitimate expectation gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation to be confined mostly to right to a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken.
the doctrine does not give scope to claim relief straightway from the administrative authorities as no crystallized right as such involved.
in other words where a person s legitimate expectation in not fulfilled by taking a particular decision then decision maker should justify the denial of such expectation by showing some overriding public interest.
the basic requirement of article 14 is fairness in action by the state and non arbitrariness in essence and substance is the heart beat of fair play.
where a particular mode is prescribed for doing an act and there is no impediment in adopting the procedure the deviation to act in different manner which does not disclose any discernible principle which is reasonable itself small be labelled as arbitrary.
this court s observations in g b mahajan v jalgaon municipal council air 1991 sc 1153 1990 indlaw sc 438 are kept out of lush field of administrative policy except where policy is inconsistent with the express or implied provision of a statute which creates the power to which the policy relates or where a decision made in purported exercise of power is such that a repository of the power acting reasonably and in good faith could not have made it.
that is and ought to be a difficult onus for an applicant to discharge.
the courts are not very good at formulating or evaluating policy.
sometimes when the courts have intervened on policy grounds the court s view of the range of policies open under the statute or of what is unreasonable policy has not got public acceptance.
in hindustan development corporation s case1993 indlaw sc 1085 supra it was observed that decision taken by the authority must be found to be arbitrary unreasonable and not taken in public interest where the doctrine of legitimate expectation can be applied.
if it is a question of policy even by ways of change of old policy the courts can not intervene with the decision.
in a given case whether there are such facts and circumstances giving rise to legitimate expectation would primarily be a question of fact.
as was observed in punjab communications ltd v union of india of others air 1999 sc 1801 1999 indlaw sc 1548 the change in policy can defeat a substantive legitimate expectation if it can be justified on wednesbury reasonableness.
the decision maker has the choice in the balancing of the pros and cons relevant to the change in policy.
a claim based on merely legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right.
its uniqueness lies in the fact that it covers the entire span of time present past and future.
how significant is the statement that today is tomorrows yesterday.
legitimacy of an expectation can be inferred only if it is founded on the sanction of law.
as observed in attorney general for new south wale v quinn 1990 64 australian ljr 327 to strike the exercise of administrative power solely on the ground of avoiding the disappointment of the legitimate expectations of an individual would be to set the courts adrift on a featureless sea of pragmatism.
moreover the negotiation of a legitimate expectation falling short of a legal right is too nebulous to form a basis for invalidating the exercise of a power when its exercise otherwise accords with law.
if a denial of legitimate expectation in a given case amounts to denial of right guaranteed or is arbitrary discriminatory unfair or biased gross abuse of power of violation of principles of natural justice the same can be questioned on the well known grounds attracting article 14 but a claim based on mere legitimate expectation without anything more can not ipso facto give a right to invoke these principles.
it depends very much on the facts and the recognised general principles of administrative law applicable to such facts and the concept of legitimate expectation which is the latest recruit to a long list of concepts fashioned by the courts for the review of administrative action must be restricted to the general legal limitations applicable and binding the manner of the future exercise of administrative power in a particular case.
it follows that the concept of legitimate expectation is not the key which unlocks the treasure of natural justice and it ought not to unlock the gates which shuts the court out of review on the merits particularly when the elements of speculation and uncertainty are inherent in that very concept.
otherwise a resourceful litigant having vested interest in contract licences etc can successfully indulge in getting welfare activities mandated by directing principles thwarted to further his own interest.
if the state acts within the bounds of reasonableness it would be legitimate to take into consideration the national priorities and adopt trade policies.
in determining whether there is any unfairness involved the nature of the right alleged to have taken infringed the underlying purpose of the restriction imposed the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby the disproportion of the imposition the prevailing condition at the relevant time enter into judicial verdict the reasonableness of the legitimate expectation has to be determined with respect to the circumstances relating to the trade or business in question.
sc 9011960 indlaw sc 472 shree meenakshi mills ltd v union of india air 1974.
sc 3651973 indlaw sc 291 hari chand sarda v mizo district council and another air 1967 sc 829 1966 indlaw sc 125 krishnan kakkanth v government of kerala and others air 1997.
sc 128 1996 indlaw sc 1845 and union of india and another v international trading co and another 2003 5 scc 437 2003 indlaw sc 472.
article 166 of the constitution deals with the conduct of government business.
the said provision reads as follows 166.
a constitution bench in r chitralekha etc.
v state of mysore and ors.
sc 1823 1964 indlaw sc 103 held that the provisions of the article were only directory and not mandatory in character and if they were not complied with it could still be established as a question of fact that the impugned order was issued in fact by the state government or the governor.
while clause 1 is in relation to the mode of expression clause 2 lays down the ways in which the order is to be authenticated.
in order to invoke the doctrine of promissory estoppel clear sound and positive foundation must be laid in the petition itself by the party invoking and doctrine the bald expressions without any supporting material to the effect that the doctrine is attracted because the party invoking the doctrine has altered its position relying on the assurance of the government would not be sufficient to press into aid the doctrine.
in shrijee sales corporation and anr v union of india 1997 3 scc 398 1996 indlaw sc 1561 it was observed that once public interest is accepted as the superior equity which can override individual equity the principle would be applicable even in cases where a period has been indicated for operation of the promise.
sc 3910 1997 indlaw sc 1364 and in sales tax officers and anr.
v shree durga oil mills and anr.
1999 1 scc 573 1997 indlaw sc 1219 it was further held that the government could change its industrial policy if the situation so warranted and merely because the resolution was announced for a particular period it did not mean that the government could not amend and change the policy under any circumstances.
the question of legitimate expectation arises according to the appellants after the benefits were granted by the concerned g o ms.
as the correctness of factual basis justifying withdrawal is in issue fair play certainly warranted grant of opportunity to the appellants to present its side of the picture.
another point which was specifically raised before the high court but has not been dealt by it is the legality of the action in directing retrospective withdrawal of the benefit by a letter of the government.
