appellant before us was detained u s 3 of the conservation of foreign exchange and prevention of smuggling activities.
for short cofeposa.
he is the managing director of a company registered and incorporated under the provisions of the companies act known as m s sundesh springs private limited.
it was an exporter and held a valid licence therefor.
the company was to export products of alloy steel.
upon exporting of alloy steel it was entitled to credits under the duty entitlement pass book depb.
scheme introduced by the government of india with an object of encouraging exports.
he allegedly misdeclared both the value and description of goods upon procuring fake and false bills through one prabhjot singh.
m s s p industrial corporation m s.
it was allegedly found that non alloy steel bars rods etc of value ranging from rs 15 to rs 17 per kg were exported in the guise of alloy steel forgings bars rods etc by declaring their value thereof from rs 110 to rs 150 per kg and the export proceeds over and above the actual price were being routed through hawala channel.
the officers of the directorate of revenue intelligence dri searched the factory as well as the residential premises of appellant and that of prabhjot singh.
appellant and the said prabhjot singh made statements u s 108 of the customs act.
prabhjot singh allegedly admitted to have supplied fake bills to units owned and controlled by appellant on commission basis without actual supply of the goods.
the consul economicconsulate general of india at dubai allegedly confirmed the existence of a parallel set of export invoices.
on the aforementioned allegations an order of detention was issued on 5 4 2005 appellant moved for issuance of a writ of habeas corpus before the high court of judicature of punjab and haryana.
although before the high court the principal ground urged on behalf of appellant in questioning the legality or validity of the order of detention was unexplained delay in passing the order of detention which did not find favour with the high court.
in the meantime admittedly the period of detention being over appellant had been set at large.
he was released from custody on 17 5 2006.
this appeal however has been pressed as a proceeding under the smugglers and foreign exchange manipulators forfeiture of property act1976 for short safemahas been initiated against appellant.
we may first deal with the question of unexplained delay.
on 13 10 2003appellant was arrested.
he was discharged on bail on 6 1 2004 several inquiries were conducted both inside and outside india.
learned counsel would contend that keeping in view the nature and magnitude of an offence under cofeposa a distinction must be made between an order of detention passed under cofeposa vis a vis other acts as per the law laid down by this court in rajendrakumar natvarlal shah v state of gujarat and others 1988 3 scc 153 1988 indlaw sc 71 and in that view of the matter the high court must be held to have arrived at a correct decision.
indisputably delay to some extent stands explained.
but we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2 12 2004the order of detention was passed after four months.
we must also notice that in the meantime on 20 12 2004the authorities of the dri had clearly stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under the scrutiny stating in our letter mentioned above your office was requested not to issue the depb scripts to m s girnar impex limited and m s siri amar exports only in respect of the pending application if any filed by these parties up to the date of action i e 11 10 2003 as the past exports were under scrutiny being doubtful as per the intelligence received in this office.
this office never intended to stop the export incentives occurring to the parties after the date of action i e 11 10 2003 in the civil your office letter.
furthermore as noticed hereinbefore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellant.
the said documents in our opinion were material.
it was therefore difficult to appreciate why order of detention could not be passed on the basis of the materials gathered by them.
we may also place on record that sen j in rajendrakumar natvarlal shah 1988 indlaw sc 71 suprawhile laying down various stages of the procedures leading to an order of detention opined that rule as to unexplained delay in taking action is not inflexible and a detention under cofeposa may be considered from a different angle.
the question as regard delay in issuing the order of detention has been held to be a valid ground for quashing an order of detention by this court in t d abdul rahman v state of kerala and others air 1990 sc 225 1989 indlaw sc 205 stating the conspectus of the above decisions can be summarised thus the question whether the prejudicial activities of a person necessitating to pass an order of detention is proximate to the time when the order is made or the live link between the prejudicial activities and the purpose of detention is snapped depends on the facts and circumstances of each case.
no hard and fast rule can be precisely formulated that would be applicable under all circumstances and no exhaustive guidelines can be laid down in that behalf.
however when there is undue and long delay between the prejudicial activities and the passing of detention order the court has to scrutinise whether the detaining authority has satisfactorily examined such a delay and afforded a tenable and reasonable explanation as to why such a delay has occasioned when called upon to answer and further the court has to investigate whether the causal connection has been broken in the circumstances of each case.
the delay caused in this case in issuing the order of detention has not been explained.
we may notice that in sk.
serajul v state of west bengal 1975 2 scc 78 1974 indlaw sc 475this court opined there was thus delay at both stages and this delay unless satisfactorily explained would throw considerable doubt on the genuineness of the subjective satisfaction of the district magistrate burdwan recited in the order of detention.
it would be reasonable to assume that if the district magistrate of burdwan was really and genuinely satisfied after proper application of mind to the materials before him that it was necessary to detain the petitioner with a view to preventing him from acting in a prejudicial manner he would have acted with greater promptitude both in making the order of detention as also in securing the arrest of the petitioner and the petitioner would not have been allowed to remain at large for such a long period of time to carry on his nefarious activities.
in abdul salam alias thiyyan s o thiyyan mohammad detenu no 962general prison trivandrum v union of india and others 1990 3 scc 15 1990 indlaw sc 994 whereupon the learned additional solicitor general has placed strong reliance this court found that there had been potentiality or likelihood of prejudicial activities and thus or mere delay as long as it is explained the court may not strike down the detention.
it may be true that the period of detention is over.
it may further be true that appellant had remained in detention for the entire period but it is one thing to say that the writ of habeas corpus in this circumstances can not issue but it is another thing to say that an order of detention is required to be quashed so as to enable the detainee to avoid his civil liabilities under safema as also protect his own reputation.
v by orders dated 31 8 2004 and 28 10 2004the civil judge directed release of documents to appellant.
but indisputably those documents involving the civil court proceedings were not placed before the detaining authority.
the question has been considered by this court in rajinder arora 2006 indlaw sc 87 supra stating admittedly furthermore the status report called for from the customs department has not been taken into consideration by the competent authorities.
a division bench of this court in k s nagamuthu v state of tamil nadu ors 2005 9 scale 534 2005 indlaw sc 748 struck down an order of detention on the ground that the relevant material had been withheld from the detaining authority which in that case was a letter of the detenu retracting from confession made by him.
what would have been the position if the detaining authority was apprised of the fact that sowkath ali had retracted his confession is not for us to make a retrospective judgment at this distance of time.
in ahamed nassar v state of tamil nadu and others 1999 8 scc 473 1999 indlaw sc 778this court opined the question is not whether the second part of the contents of those letters was relevant or not but whether they were placed before the detaining authority for his consideration.
it may be that the detaining authority might have come to the same conclusion as the sponsoring authority but its contents are relevant which could not be withheld by the sponsoring authority.
but the said information report was registered only on 6 4 2005 and not prior to the date of order of detention.
in paragraph 36 of the order of detention the detaining authority stated in view of the facts mentioned above i have no hesitation in arriving at the conclusion that you have through your acts of omission and commission indulged in prejudicial activities as narrated above.
what is necessary to be supplied is the relevant and the material documents but thus all relevant documents must be supplied so as to enable the detenue to make an effective representation which is his fundamental right u art 225 of the constitution of india.
it is set aside accordingly and the order of detention passed against appellant is quashed.
