ujjagar singh the appellant herein a resident of village bangawali tehsil malerkotla was tried and convicted by the additional sessions judge sangrur for the murder of his niece mukhtiar kaur and was awarded the death penalty.
in addition he was convicted for an offence punishable section 376 of the ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to a fine of rs 5 000 and in default of payment to undergo further r i for one year and section 309 of the ipc to a sentence of simple imprisonment for one year.
the aforesaid convictions and sentences have been maintained by the high court and the matter is before us in these proceedings by way of special leave.
the facts of the case are as under.
at about 2 00 p m on 10th november 2002 a boy whose identity is not forthcoming informed satnam singh pw2 that an incident of firing had taken place in the house of ujjagar singh situated in the fields on the outskirts of the village.
satnam singh conveyed this information to sarpanch jora singh pw1 who was attending a marriage at that time.
jora singh accompanied by gurdeep singh pw3 thereupon rushed to ujjagar singh s house and found mukhtiar kaur lying dead with a gun shot injury and the appellant also with a gun shot injury lying unconscious on the ground in the adjoining room.
jora singh and gurdeep singh immediately removed ujjagar singh to the civil hospital dhuri in the jeep belonging to kulwant singh pw4.
jora singh also met inspector harjinder pal singh pw14 at 4 40 p m near the hospital who recorded his statement at that place and with his endorsement exhibit p a sent it to police station dhuri where the formal fir was registered at about 4 45 p m with the special report being delivered to the illaka magistrate at dhuri itself at 6 20 p m the same evening.
the facts as narrated were that arjan singh of village bangawali had three sons puran singh ujjagar singh appellant and ajmer singh.
puran singh had died about 20 years earlier leaving behind his wife two sons and a daughter mukhtiar kaur.
the two sons and the wife also died long before the incident and mukhtiar kaur the sole surviving member of this branch of the family had been married to balwinder singh pw9 about 9 or 10 years earlier.
puran singh had however transferred 30 or 35 bighas of agricultural land falling to his share after the death of his father in the name of the appellant s sons by a collusive decree in the year 1994 and the suggestion was that this transaction had been objected to by mukhtiar kaur who was demanding that the land be returned to her.
it appears that mukhtiar kaur s relations with her in laws had got strained and she had left her matrimonial home and come to live with ujjagar singh her uncle 7 or 8 months earlier and the suggestion was that mukhtiar kaur had been killed by the appellant with his licensed gun and he had thereafter attempted to commit suicide.
having recorded the aforesaid facts in the fir pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh reached the place of incident and lifted one spent 12 bore cartridge case shaktiman make from near mukhtiar kaur s dead body and one dbbl gun from the place where ujjagar singh appeared to have been shot and another spent cartridge case was recovered from the right barrel of the gun.
after completion of the investigation at the spot mukhtiar kaur s dead body was sent for its post mortem examination.
dr harwinder kaur aforesaid also took swabs from the vagina of the deceased and as per the chemical examiner s report dated 2 1 2003 semen was found on the swab taken from the vagina and from the underwear that mukhtiar kaur had been wearing at the time of her death.
the weapon and the recovered cartridge cases had also been sent to the forensic science laboratory which in its report dated 4 8 2004 opined that the crime cartridge case ci could have been fired by the right barrel of the weapon whereas the crime cartridge case c2 had been fired from the right barrel.
during the trial jora singh pw1 satnam singh pw2 gurdeep singh pw3 and kulwant singh pw4 resiled from their statements given to the police and were declared hostile.
balwinder singh pw9 however supported the prosecution case deposing that the land had in fact been got transferred from gurmail kaur mother of mukhtiar kaur to ujjagar singh by fraud and mukhtiar kaur was therefore entitled to its return.
he also deposed that mukhtiar kaur had told him some time earlier that the accused had been beating her and had also committed sexual intercourse with her and that at about 11 p m on 10 11 2002 karam singh pw10 had informed him as to what had transpired on which he along with his father hamir singh pw12 and several others had rushed to bangawali.
pw10 karam singh aforesaid confirmed the story given by balwinder singh.
p c in reply to question 33 he stated as under i am innocent.
i was treating mukhtiar kaur as my daughter and loved her as my daughter.
false allegations have been levelled against me.
i never harassed mukhtiar kaur nor ever got her land mutated from her mother by fraud.
i have not killed mukhtiar kaur.
mother of mukhtiar kaur got the land mutated by her own free will and mukhtiar kaur had no dispute about it.
balwinder singh her husband was addicted to vices and used to beat her due to which she used to remain under depression and sick generally and used to come to me as my daughter.
he has pointed out that there was absolutely no evidence to suggest that mukhtiar kaur had been subjected to rape and in this view of the matter the very basis for the imposition of the death penalty was not made out.
it has finally been submitted that the land had been transferred in the name of ujjagar singh s sons in the year 1994 by gurmail kaur mother of mukhtiar kaur by a collusive decree and there was no evidence to show that mukhtiar kaur had ever displayed any unhappiness or made any complaint to any person or any authority with regard to the decree and as such the very basis of the prosecution story did not exist.
we first take up for consideration the question of the conviction section 376 of the ipc.
we are further of the opinion that even assuming for a moment that sexual intercourse between the two had indeed taken place it can not be said from the evidence before us that it was without the consent or against the wishes of mukhtiar kaur.
the learned state counsel has however emphasized that both the trial court and the high court had for good reasons opined that the circumstances made out a case for conviction and the accused having given a counter version some obligation lay on him as well to explain the circumstances against him inasmuch that admittedly he and the victim were alone in the house at the time of the incident.
in this case this court held that the omission of the prosecution inter alia to have the finger prints found on the alleged murder weapon was fatal to the prosecution story.
there is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between may be proved and must be or should be proved as was held by this court in shivaji sahabrao bobade v state of maharashtra 1973 indlaw sc 181 where the following observations were made.
2the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused that is to say they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty 3the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency 4they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved and 5there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
mr goburdhan has also cited mahmood v state of u p 1976 1 scc 542 1975 indlaw sc 643 shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra 1981 2 scc 35 1980 indlaw sc 47 sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 omwati smt and ors v mahendra singh.
v state of a p 2006 10 scc 172 2006 indlaw sc 144 in support of his plea relating to the evaluation of circumstantial evidence.
mr goburdhan has however laid great emphasis on the fact that no reference to the gun or cartridges had been made in the inquest report and that in any case the weapon and the spent cartridges had been sent to the laboratory belatedly.
pjj prepared by the investigating officer inspector harjinder pal singh pw14 on 10th november 2002 that the weapon is shown lying close to the place where the appellant had been found unconscious and a spent cartridge recovered from near the dead body of mukhtiar kaur.
he has in this connection referred us to the statement of dr ripan miglani pw15 and the wound found on the appellant at the time of his medical examination in the department of surgery of the dayanand medical college hospital ludhiana which was about 15 x 8 cm curvilinear wound present on the left half of face extending upto bone.
no blackening or foreign body was visible.
the learned state counsel has however relied on the statement of pw16 dr sanjay uppal who was apparently the first doctor to have examined the appellant wherein he clearly testified that the blackened portion around the firearm injury had been removed by him.
the fact that the shot was fired from below going upwards is also supported by the site plan exh.
the fact that the terrace and the bedroom are adjoining each other is not in dispute.
blackening or charring is possible when a shot is fired from a distance of about 2 feet to 3 feet.
