the present appeal arises out of the judgment and order dated 01 07 2002 passed by the high court of bombay at goa in criminal appeal No 6 of 2000 convicting the accused appellant section 302 of the indian penal code for short the the ipc and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment for the offence by setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the trial court.
facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
it is also the case of the prosecution that as a result of the aforesaid stab injuries given to the deceased he expired on the same day i e on 19 04 1988.
p s joaquim dias pw 21 who was attached to the ponda police station as p s i received a phone call at about 10 45 p m from p s i k k desai of the panaji police station that a person named rauji dulba sawant had been brought in police jeep by police constable jaisingrao rane and that while he was being taken to the goa medical college he expired.
he was informed that the deceased had died as a result of stab injuries received and therefore he was to take necessary steps.
on receipt of the aforesaid message pw 21 along with asi tabit mamlekar went to the scene of offence.
they reached the scene of offence at about 11 30 p m but found the entire place plunged into darkness and with the help of torch light pw 21 surveyed the scene of offence.
during the survey made at the place of occurrence pw 21 noticed some blood stains in the front courtyard of the house and a pipe of length of about 1 foot or slightly less lying in the courtyard having blood stains.
on enquiring from her pw 21 learnt that her name was yeshoda who was later on arrayed as accused No 3.
s p shri raikar and p i shri alan osa were sent in their search.
religious ceremony was performed by installing the statue of lord ganesh in the house and.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
there was a heated exchange of words between rauji and the appellant switched on the light which was again switched off by rauji the deceased.
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
thereafter the appellant and the two other alleged accused namely accused nos 2 and 3 and the two juvenile offenders gathered in the hall to assault rauji the deceased pw 1 and pw 8.
according to pw 1 in order to avoid the assault by all of them they went to bulcao balcony.
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
it was also alleged that when pw 8 tried to intervene the other three accused started assaulting her with fists and slaps.
pw 8 pw 18 and pw 1 then lifted rauji and brought him in the courtyard.
in the meanwhile residents of the locality had gathered in the courtyard and told the accused persons not to assault rauji.
however pw 1 again intervened and removed the said stone from the hand of accused no 3.
pw 18 rushed to the rescue of deceased rauji.
the accused then started assaulting her and pw 8 with slaps.
in the meantime police jeep arrived at the scene and on seeing the police jeep all the accused ran away from the courtyard and went inside.
pw 1 and others asked the police to take rauji to the hospital.
after completion of the arguments the trial court reserved the verdict.
ms a subhashini learned counsel appearing for the respondent state however strenuously submitted that none of the aforesaid submissions could be accepted by this court as it is a foolproof case of conviction of the appellant section.
the issue with regard to the initiation of the investigation without recording the fir was succinctly addressed by this court in the case of state of u p v bhagwant kishore joshi 1964 3 scr 71 1963 indlaw sc 268 observed as follows 17.
investigation in substance means collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence.
no doubt section 5 a of the prevention of corruption act was enacted for preventing harassment to a government servant and with this object in view investigation except with the previous permission of a magistrate is not permitted to be made by an officer below the rank of deputy superintendent of police.
since no irregularity was committed by him there is no occasion to invoke the aid of the curative provisions of the code.
in order to verify the information received pw 21 went to the place of occurrence and found the entire house in total darkness.
in animireddy venkata ramana and others v public prosecutor high court of andhra pradesh 2008 5 scc 368 2008 indlaw sc 354 this court while considering a similar case observed as follows 10.
however a perusal of record clearly shows that the doctor who conducted the postmortem pw 7 stated in his evidence that there were in total 16 injuries when external examination was done by him and the knife m o 11 could have caused the injuries No 1 2 3 and 4.
section 299 defines culpable homicide as the act of causing death i with the intention of causing death or ii with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or iii with the knowledge that such act is likely to cause death.
it has been repeatedly held by this court that culpable homicide is the genus and murder is species and that all murders are culpable homicide but not vice versa.
the aforesaid distinction between an act amounting to murder and an act not amounting to murder has been brought out in the numerous decisions of this court.
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
the test laid down by virsa singh case4 for the applicability of clause thirdly is now ingrained in our legal system and has become part of the rule of law.
under clause thirdly of section 300 ipc culpable homicide is murder if both the following conditions are satisfied i e a that the act which causes death is done with the intention of causing death or is done with the intention of causing a bodily injury and b that the injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
thus according to the rule laid down in virsa singh case4 even if the intention of the accused was limited to the infliction of a bodily injury sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature and did not extend to the intention of causing death the offence would be murder.
illustration c appended to section 300 clearly brings out this point.
such knowledge on the part of the offender must be of the highest degree of probability the act having been committed by the offender without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.
it is trite law that section 304 part ii comes into play when the death is caused by doing an act with knowledge that it is likely to cause death but there is no intention on the part of the accused either to cause death or to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause death.
