these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
background facts.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
they having come to learn that certain vacancies exist in the respondent authority applied therefor although no advertisement in that behalf was issued.
the respondent authority appointed the appellants and posted them to an overseas project known as indore habitat project which was implemented through the agency of overseas development authority hereinafter referred to as the oda on daily wages.
rs 63 per day for the degree holders and rs 52 50 per day for the diploma holders.
on or about 17 3 1997 however they began receiving a salary of rs 1500 per month.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
they were also being granted the benefit of leave.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
the said dispute was referred for adjudication of the labour court indore by the state of madhya pradesh on the following questions.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
if no then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
proceedings before the tribunal.
the parties filed their respective pleadings before the labour court and also adduced their respective evidences.
the labour court on the basis of the materials produced before it arrived at the following findings 1.
the appellants were appointed by the indore development authority.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
work has been taken by the respondent from all the appellants except four.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
the salary fixed by the commissioner was earlier given to all engineers and later on they were given the salary fixed by the collector.
there is no difference in their work and the work of the employees of indore development authority.
aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award the respondent authority herein filed a writ petition before the madhya pradesh high court indore bench which was marked as writ petition no 1188 of 1997.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
high court judgment.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
it was further contended that as the respondents despite direction to produce documents including the offers for appointment did not produce the same an adverse inference should have been drawn against them by the high court.
the respondent authority is a state within the meaning of article.
it is therefore constitutionally obliged to strictly comply with the requirements of articles 14 and 16 thereof before making any appointment.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
it was therefore impermissible for the state to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
such an order can not be upheld also on the ground that the employees allegedly served the cooperative societies for a long time.
application of the act and the rules.
by reason of the provisions of the said act application of standard standing orders to undertakings has been provided in terms whereof the matters to be provided in the standard standing orders have been specified.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
the terms of conditions of service contained in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules are not in derogation of the provisions contained in schedule appended to the 1961 act.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
it is accepted that no appointment letter was issued in favour of the appellants.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
the said seniority list was not prepared in terms of the classification of employees within the meaning of the 1961 act and the rules framed there under but was based on the date of joining probably for the purpose of maintenance of records.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
vis a vis the 1973 act and the rules framed thereunder.
such a plea had expressly been rejected by this court in a umarani 2004 indlaw sc 606 supra.
the project was indisputably to be executed by the indore development authority and for the implementation thereof the appointments had to be made by it.
it is accepted at the bar when the endorsement on the application filed by om prakash mondloi was shown that the appointment letters were not issued.
such a plea was not even raised before the high court.
the application calling for the production of the documents was for the years 1987 to 1992.
the above burden having not been discharged and the labour court having held so in our opinion the industrial court and the high court erred in basing an order of re instatement solely on an adverse inference drawn erroneously.
they were not therefore entitled to take the recourse of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work as adumbrated in articles 14 and 39d of the constitution of india.
for the purpose of invoking the said doctrine the nature of the work and responsibility attached to the post are some of the factors which were bound to be taken into consideration.
to claim a relief on the basis of equality it is for the claimants to substantiate a clear cut basis of equivalence and a resultant hostile discrimination before becoming eligible to claim rights on a par with the other group vis  vis an alleged discrimination.
