this appeal by special leave has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of bombay high court aurangabad bench by which the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed and their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc and sentence of 7 years ri imposed thereunder by the learned sessions judge aurangabad was affirmed.
the deceased bhimabai was daughter of pw 1 tukaram eknath tambe resident of village sanjkheda.
and she was married to appellant No 1.
appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
the appellant No 2 kadubai is the mother of the appellant No 1 and both the appellants were residing in the same house in village palshi.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
whenever bhimabai went to her parental home she used to tell her parents that her husband and mother in law accused appellants were harassing her and used to occasionally beat her.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
thereafter the accused treated bhimabai properly but after about four months they again started harassing her.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
she also told her parents that her husband had asked her to bring an amount of rs 1000 1200 for the purpose of household expenses and manure.
the case of the prosecution futher is that in the evening of 15 september 1991 a person came from village palshi on a motorcycle and informed pw 1 tukaram that bhimabai was unwell.
pw 1 then immediately went to the house of the accused along with some of his relatives.
there he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which indicated that she had consumed some poisonous substance.
the police patil of the village pw 3 sandu mohanrao patil lodged an accidental death report at 9 00 p m on 15 september 1991 at the police station.
on the basis of the said accidental death report pw 6 sandeepan kamble police sub inspector visited the house of the accused held inquest on the dead body of bhimabai and thereafter sent the same for post mortem examination.
pw 1 tukaram lodged the fir of the incident at 7 00 p m on 16 september 1991 at p s chikalthana on the basis of which case crime No 144 of 1991 was registered against the appellants under sections 498 a 306 and 304 b ipc.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
the learned sessions judge framed charges under sections 498 a 304 b read with section 34 ipc and section 306 read with section 34 ipc against both the appellants.
the appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
the prosecution in order to establish its case examined six wintesses and filed some documentary evidence.
the learned sessions judge after consideration of the material on record acquitted the appellants of the charges under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but convicted them under section 304 b ipc and imposed a sentence of 7 years ri thereunder.
the post mortem examination on the body of deceased bhimabai was conducted by a team of two doctors of department of forensic medicine and toxicology medical college aurangabad namely dr s m jawale and dr h v godbole on 16 september 1991.
the doctors did not find any sign of external or internal injury on the body of the deceased and in their opinion the cause of death was insecticide poisoning.
the report of the post mortem examination was admitted by the defence.
the specific case of the prosecution is that bhimabai ended her life by consuming poison because of harassment caused to her by the appellants for or in connection with demand of dowry.
the last time she visited her parental home was during the festival of nag panchami and at that time she looked depressed.
in his cross examination he has admitted that his statement that he had given rs 20000 in dowry at the time of marriage was incorrect and in fact he had given rs 5000 as dowry and the total expenses incurred in the marriage was about rs 20000.
he has admitted that it was appellant No 1 who had sent a person on motorcycle who had given information regarding bhimabai being unwell and that both the appellants were present at the time of her funeral.
he also admitted that he had not gone to attend that funeral of bhimabai.
the last time bhimabai visited her parental home was on the occasion of the festival of nag panchami and she had complained that she was being ill treated and was sometimes given beating for bringing money from her parents.
p c which was recorded very next day of the incident i e on 16 september 1991 she did not state that cause of ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
the learned trial judge then sought clarification from the witnesses by putting the following question.
and that was the cause.
p c which was recorded on the very next day of the death of bhimabai this witness did not state that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
the evidence on record does not indicate that the police had any reason to favour the accused and deliberately omitted to mention about the alleged demand of money while recording the statement of pw 5 sumanbai under section 161 cr.
the evidence shows that the accused come from very humble background and they could not have exerted any kind of influence financial or otherwise upon the police so as to manage a statement favourable to them when in the course of investigation the statements of witnesses were being recorded under section 161 cr.
accepting the statements of father and mother on their face value that utmost which can be held is that the appellant no 1 had asked his wife bhimabai to bring money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
sc 3509 1996 indlaw sc 2404 and chemicals and fibres of india v union of india air 1997.
the evidence adduced by the prosecution does not therefore show that any demand for dowry as defined in section 2 of the dowry prohibition act was made by the appellants as what was allegedly asked for was some money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
it has thus been submitted that no offence under section 306 ipc is made out against the appellants.
as already stated the appellants were also charged under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but were acquitted of the said charges by the learned sessions judge which order has attained finality for the reason that the state did not prefer appeal against the same.
the appeal before the high court and also in this court has been preferred by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc.
it has been held in state of andhra pradesh v thadi narayan air 1962.
therefore we have refrained from expressing any opinion as to whether the appellants could be held guilty of having committed the offence under section 498 a or 306 ipc on the basis of evidence available on record as their acquittal under the aforesaid charges has attained finality and can not be reversed in the appeal filed by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304 b ipc.
the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of the high court and the judgment and order dated 04 january 1993 of the learned sessions judge convicting the appellants under section 304 b ipc are set aside and the appellants are acquitted of the said charge.
