interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
plot nos 177 and 178 were owned by respondent no 4 herein.
appellant was a tenant under the said respondent in respect of plot no 178 admeasuring 1067 sq m.
he used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
a road widening project was proposed in terms of the said scheme.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
he however did not pursue his case in regard to the proposal for widening of the road.
for the said public purpose viz widening of the road867 sq m of land was taken over leaving only 200 sq m of land.
with a view to give effect to the provisions of the act and the rules framed thereunder proceedings were initiated for allotment of the said land in terms of the act 20 of the land was taken over without payment of any compensation.
in respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re allotment of the land despite a public notice the appellant did not file any objection.
he did not take any part in the proceedings therefor.
respondent no 4 was allotted a final plot bearing no 157 and the said 200 sq m of land of plot no 178 has merged in final plot no 165 owned by the respondent no 3.
the scheme was notified in the year 1999 respondent no 1 herein which is the statutory agency in terms of the act for the purpose of implementation of the scheme issued a notice u s 67 of the act upon the respondent no 4 on or about 15 01 2000 as he did not respond thereto a notice u s 68 of the act was served on him on 31 03 2000 stating as per the said approved preliminary scheme the plot no 157 is allotted to you.
and the said land is now vested in the municipal corporation from 1 7 1999and is of the ownership of the municipal corporation.
a learned single judge of the high court dismissed the said writ petition inter alia opining that the interest of landlord and tenant being common and in absence of any inter se dispute between them even if any portion of the land which remained in possession of the tenant was included in the scheme the proper remedy would be to claim compensation to that extent holding it appears that in the said decision the apex court while considering the scheme on the touch stone of the mandatory procedure to be followed by the authority under the bombay town planning rules has given directions to provide alternative accommodation based on the earlier decision in case of jaswantsingh mathurasingh and upheld the scheme.
such is not the issue in the present case nor there is any complaint by the tenant that any special notice was not served or that the mandatory procedure for finalization of the scheme is not followed.
a division bench of the high court dismissed an intra court appeal preferred thereagainst.
the tenant s interest being distinct and separate could not have been held to be merged with the interest of the landlord either for the purpose of allotment of a final plot or otherwise in favour of the landlord.
lalit in support of his contention strongly relied upon a decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji darji and others v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 1 scc 384 1991 indlaw sc 975 and jaswantsingh mathurasingh and another v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 supp 1 scc 5 1991 indlaw sc 972.
prashant g desai learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no 1on the other hand would submit.
the act was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to the making and execution of development plans and town planning schemes in the state of gujarat.
it is not necessary for us to delve deep into the statutory scheme.
suffice it to say that chapter iv of the act deals with control of development and use of land included in the development plans.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
s 40 of the act empowers the appropriate authority to make one or more schemes.
a declaration of intention to make a scheme is to be notified whereafter a draft scheme may be published.
s 45 provides for reconstitution of the plots sub s 2.
whereof inter alia enables allotment of a final plot from an original plot by transfer of any adjoining lands.
s 52 contemplates issuance of a notice in a prescribed manner and in the prescribed form.
before embarking upon the rival contentions we may also notice that the provisions of the bombay town planning rules1955.
for short the bombay rules are in pari materia with the rules.
rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for the procedure to be followed by the town planning officer.
a town planning scheme therefore envisages calling for objection from the persons concerned for three purposes i in regard to draft scheme ii lodging of any claim for payment of compensation iii participation in the matter of allotment of final plots.
sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for issuance of a special notice upon the person interested in any plot or in any particular plot comprised in the scheme.
darji1991 indlaw sc 975 supra wherein this court opined that sub rule 3 of rule 21 of the bombay rules was mandatory in nature subject of course to the condition that on the crucial date viz when the town planning scheme is notified in the official gazette he whether an owner or tenant or sub tenant must be in possession of the property.
in jaswantsingh mathurasingh1991 indlaw sc 972 suprait was reiterated that a tenant or a sub tenant is a person interested and is entitled to notice.
it is obvious that u s 105 of transfer of property act a lease creates right or an interest in enjoyment of the demised property and a tenant or a sub tenant is entitled to remain in possession of the demised property until the lease is duly terminated and eviction takes place in accordance with law.
appellant was a tenant in respect of plot no 178 plot no 177 was not a plot contiguous thereto.
validity of rule 26 of the rules had never been questioned.
it had also not been contended that the said rule is ultra vires s 52 of the act.
in west bengal housing board etc v.
brijendra prasad gupta and others etc air 1997 sc 2745it was opined that the authority is not required to make a roaming enquiry as to who is the person entitled to notice.
existence of a public purpose and increase in the valuation of the property was admitted.
it was on that legal principle this court in state of gujarat v shantilal mangaldas ors 1969 3 scr 341 1969 indlaw sc.
had such a claim been filed the authority before making final allotment could have considered the competing claims wherefor a large number of factors were required to be taken into consideration viz.
ors v.
m g makwana ors 1967 3 scr 65 1967 indlaw sc 138.
indlaw sc 138 suprait was held therefore having due regard to the substantive and procedural aspects we are satisfied that the act imposes only reasonable restrictions in which case it is saved u art 195 of the constitution.
see also bhikhubhai vithlabhai patel ors v.
we do not mean to say that under no circumstances the appellant was entitled to allotment of a portion of the property or mandatory compensation in lieu thereof from the landlord.
it has been noticed by us hereinbefore that under rule 26 of the rules applicable in the instant case as distinguished from the bombay rules wherein special notice is requiredno special notice is mandatorily required to be served.
assuming however that it was obligatory for the state to issue notice to the appellant the question is whether the principle of waiver precludes him from claiming equitable relief in this case due to his earlier conduct which allowed the entire process of acquisition and allotment to become final.
the primary meaning has been said to be the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted and is either express or implied from conduct.
it is true that waiver can not always and in every case be inferred merely from the failure of the party to take the objection.
applying the above principles to the present case it must be held that the benefit of notice provided under the act and rules being for the benefit of the appellant in which no public interests are involved he has waived the same.
the term waiver has been described in the following words waiver is the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted and is either express or implied from conduct.
