leave granted.
challenge in this appeal is to the judgment of a division bench of the madhya pradesh high court dismissing the writ appeal filed by the appellant on the ground that it was not maintainable.
the appeal was filed u s 21 of the m p uchacha nyayalay khand nyaypeth ko appeal adhiniyam2005.
hereinafter referred to as the act it was held that the order was passed in exercise of power of superintendence u art 227 of the constitution of india1950 in short the constitution against which the letters patent appeal is not maintainable.
the order of learned single judge was passed on 9 11 2005 against the said order special leave petition was filed which was disposed of by this court by order dated 16 2 2006 we shall refer to the text of the order later.
the high court construed as if this court has only waived the limitation for filing of letters patent appeal and there was no direction to consider the case on merits.
learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the order of this court is very clear and the conclusions of the high court that merely limitation was waived is contrary to the clear terms of the earlier order of this court.
additionally it is submitted that the prayer in the writ petition was to quash the order passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax.
that being so the mere fact that the writ petition was styled u art 227 of the constitution is of no consequence.
it is the nature of the relief sought for and the controversy involved which determines the article which is applicable.
learned counsel for the respondent state on the other hand supported the impugned judgment of the high court.
the earlier order passed by this court dated 22 8 2006 reads as follows heard.
since the impugned order is passed by a learned single judge.
the normal remedy is to file a letters patent appeal.
since we had entertained the special leave petition against the learned single judge s order it would be appropriate to grant three weeks time to the petitioner to prefer the lpa which if otherwise free from defect shall be entertained for being considered on merits.
the interim order passed by this court shall continue for the aforesaid purpose.
the special leave petition is disposed of accordingly.
underlined for emphasis.
a bare reading of the order shows that the direction was to consider the lpa on merits and time was granted to prefer the lpa within three weeks.
the high court was directed to dispose of the lpa on merits if it was otherwise free from defect.
the high court was therefore not justified in holding that this court s earlier order only waived the limitation for filing a letters patent appeal.
on that score alone the high court s order is unsustainable.
in addition the high court seems to have gone by the nomenclature gone by the nomenclature i e the discription given in the writ petition to be one u art 227 of the constitution.
the high court did not consider the nature of the controversy and the prayer involved in the writ petition.
as noted above the prayer was to quash the order of assessment passed by the assistant commissioner commercial tax levying purchase as well as entry tax.
s 2 of the act reads as follows 21.
an appeal shall lie from a judgment or order passed by the one judge of the high court in exercise of original jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution of india to a division bench comprising of two judges of the same high court.
provided that no such appeal shall lie against an interlocutory order or against an order passed in exercise of supervisory jurisdiction u art 227 of the constitution of india.
this court in hari vishnu kamath v syed ahmad ishaque and ors air 1955 sc 233 1954 indlaw sc 212 held that the high court while issuing writ of certiorari u art 226 of the constitution can only annul a decision of a tribunal whereas u art 227 of the constitution it can issue further directions as well.
as noted above the prayer in the writ petition was to set aside the decision of the assessing officer.
in umaji keshao meshram v radhikabai air 1986 sc 1272 1986 indlaw sc 651.
it was noted as follows.
u art 226 an order direction or writ is to issue to a person authority or the state.
in a proceeding under that article the person authority or state against whom the direction order or writ is sought is a necessary party.
under article 227however what comes up before the high court is the order or judgment of a subordinate court or tribunal for the purpose of ascertaining whether in giving such judgment or order that subordinate court or tribunal has acted within its authority and according to law.
prior to the commencement of the constitution the chartered high courts as also the judicial committee had held that the power to issue prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts was an exercise of original jurisdiction see mahomedalli allabux v ismailji abdulali air 1926.
bom 332 1926 indlaw mum 144raghunath keshav khadilkar v poona municipalityair.
1945 bom 7 1943 indlaw mum 140 ryots of garabandho v zemindar of parlakimedi air 1943 pc 164 1943 indlaw pc 23 and moulvi hamid hasan nomani.
the judicial committee held in their lordships opinion any original civil jurisdiction possessed by the high court and not in express terms conferred by the letters patent or later enactments falls within the description of ordinary original civil jurisdiction.
by art 226 the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts prior to the commencement of the constitution has been made wider and more extensive and conferred upon every high court.
the nature of the exercise of the power under article 226however remains the same as in the case of the power of issuing prerogative writs possessed by the chartered high courts.
a series of decisions of this court has firmly established that a proceeding u art 226 is an original proceeding and when it concerns civil rights it is an original civil proceeding see for instance state of u p v.
1963 1 scr 1 1962 indlaw sc 34016cit v ishwarlal bhagwandas air 1965 sc 1818 1965 indlaw sc 158ramesh v seth gendalal motilal patni 1966 3 scr 198 1966 indlaw sc 395arbind kumar singh v nand kishore prasad1968 3 scr 322 1968 indlaw sc 223 and ahmedabad mfg calico ptg.
co ltd v.
it was noted as follows.
the non obstante clause in rule 18namelynotwithstanding anything contained in rules 14 and 17 of this chaptermakes it abundantly clear why that rule uses the words finally disposed of.
the right of appeal against the judgment of a single judge is given by the letters patent which have been continued in force by art 225 of the constitution.
if under the rules of the high court a matter is heard and disposed of by a single judge an appeal lies against his judgment unless it is barred either under the letters patent or some other enactment.
as we have seen above an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 226 is not barred while cl 15 itself bars an intra court appeal against the judgment of a single judge in a petition u art 227.
in sushilabai laxminarayan mudliyar v nihalchand waghajibhai shaha 1993 supp 1 scc 11 1991 indlaw sc 718.
this court with reference to an unreported judgment in ratnagiri district central co operative bank ltd v.
for determining the question of maintainability of an appeal against such a judgment of the single judge the division bench has to find out whether in substance the judgment has been passed by the learned single judge in exercise of the jurisdiction u art 226 of the constitution.
in the event in passing his judgment on an application which had mentioned in its cause title both arts 226 and 227the single judge has in fact invoked only his supervisory powers under article 227the appeal under cl 15 would not lie.
the expression ancillary means in the context incidental or consequential to the main part of the order.
thus the determining factor is the real nature of principal order passed by the single judge which is appealed against and neither the mentioning in the cause title of the application of both the articles nor the granting of ancillary orders thereupon made by learned single judge would be relevant.
thus in each case the division bench may consider the substance of the judgment under appeal to ascertain whether the single judge has mainly or principally exercised in the matter his jurisdiction.
in the present case the division bench was clearly wrong in holding that the appeal was not maintainable against the order of the learned single judge.
in mangalbhai ors v.
the learned single judge examined the matter on merit and set aside the orders of the rent controller as well as the resident deputy collector on the ground that the aforesaid judgments were perverse.
the findings of the rent controller and resident deputy collector were set aside on the question of habitual defaulter as well as on the ground of bona fide need.
thus in the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case the pleadings of the parties in the writ petition and the judgment of the learned single judge leaves no manner of doubt that it was an order passed u art 226 of the constitution and in that view of the matter the letters patent appeal was maintainable before the high court.
basic averments for invoking such a jurisdiction were already pleaded in the writ petition for the high court s consideration.
it is true as submitted by learned counsel for the appellant that the order of the learned single judge nowhere stated that the court was considering the writ petition u art 226 of the constitution of india.
it is equally true that the learned single judge dismissed the writ petition by observing that the courts below had appreciated the contentions and rejected the complaint.
but the said observation of the learned single judge did not necessarily mean that the learned judge was not inclined to interfere u art 227 of the constitution of india only.
under these circumstances it is not possible to agree with the contention of learned counsel for the appellant that the learned single judge had refused to interfere only u art 227 of the constitution of india when he dismissed the writ petition of the respondent.
in this connection it is profitable to have a look at the decision of this court in the case of umaji keshao meshram v radhikabai 1986 supp.
the aforesaid decision squarely gets attracted on the facts of the present case.
it was open to the respondent to invoke the jurisdiction of the high court both u arts 226 and 227 of the constitution of india.
once such a jurisdiction was invoked and when his writ petition was dismissed on merits it can not be said that the learned single judge had exercised his jurisdiction only u art 226 of the constitution of india.
this conclusion directly flows from the relevant averments made in the writ petition and the nature of jurisdiction invoked by the respondent as noted by the learned single judge in his judgment as seen earlier.
consequently it could not be said that cl 15 of the letters patent was not attracted for preferring appeal against the judgment of the learned single judge.
for all these reasons therefore the primary objection to the maintainability of the letters patent appeal as canvassed by learned counsel for the appellant has to be repelled.
in surya dev rai v ram chander rai ors air 2003 sc 3044 2003 indlaw sc 598 after referring to decisions in custodian of evacuee property bangalore v khan saheb abdul shukoor etc 1961 3 scr 855 1961 indlaw sc 499 and nagendra nath bora.
as has been held in the case of surya devi rai supra a writ of certiorari can be issued u art 226 of the constitution against an order of a tribunal or an order passed by the sub ordinate court.
thus there is no manner of doubt that the orders and proceedings of a judicial court subordinate to the high court are amenable to writ jurisdiction of the high court u art 226 of the constitution.
in appropriate cases the high court while exercising supervisory jurisdiction may substitute such a decision of its own in place of the impugned decision as the inferior court or tribunal should have made.
in view of what has been stated above the high court was not justified in holding that the letters patent appeal was not maintainable.
