an fir was registered on 23 3 1996 on the statement of one prakashi devi.
she stated that on the night of 2223 3 1996while.
she and her daughter in law sheela devi were sleeping in her house around 11 30 pm the appellant jumped over the front wall of her house and broke the bulbs and ran away that at that time no male member was present in the house except the children.
that around 00 30 am the appellant again came into her house and touched her daughter in law sheela devi who woke up and raised an alarm and that the appellant immediately ran away.
the police investigated into the said complaint and submitted a report u s 173 of the code of criminal procedure for short the code.
on that basis the following charge was framed by the judicial magistrate first class karnal against the appellant that on 23 3 1996after having made preparation for causing hurt or assault you committed house trespass into the house of smt.
prakashi devi and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 452 ipc within my cognizance.
secondly on the same date time and place you assaulted and used criminal force against abovenamed prakashi devi with intent to outrage her modesty and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 354 ipc and within my cognizance.
and i hereby direct that you be tried on the above said charge by this court.
emphasis supplied.
when the said charged was read over and explained to the appellant he pleaded not guilty to the said charge and claimed trial.
prakashi devi was examined as pw 1 she reiterated what was recorded in the fir that the appellant came into the house around 11 30 pm and broke the bulbs that he came again around 00 30 am and touched her daughter in law sheela devi and when her daughter in law woke up and raised an alarm the appellant ran away.
in her cross examination prakashi devi stated that she has five sons that only her husband and one son named mahavir were staying with her that the other four sons were married and were not staying with her that on that night her husband was away in the fields and her son mahavir was also not present in the house.
however when confronted with her statement recorded in the fir she admitted having stated that when the appellant had come first time at around 11 30 pm and broke the outside bulbs her son woke up and went out of the house.
she also admitted that the appellant did not touch her nor teased her nor abused her.
her daughter in law sheela devi gave evidence as pw 2 and stated that she was married to one jaibir who worked in the military services that at 11 to 11 30 pm the accused scaled the door and broke the bulbs in the verandah of her house that when she identified the accused and raised an alarm the accused ran away that again he came around 00 30 am by scaling the door and caught her hand and that when she raised an alarm and when her mother in law woke up he ran away.
both pw1 and pw2 stated that the house of the accused was at a distance of 15 16 houses from the house of prakashi devi that the accused had never come into their house earlier that their family and the accused were not on visiting terms with each other even during functions marriages or death though they were on visiting terms with others in the village.
the investigating officer was examined as pw 3 the accused examined a witness ex sarpanch of the village as dw 1 and he stated that there was a quarrel between the accused and complainant s son surinder about a water course and subsequently he came to know that the quarrel was converted into a false case against the accused by registering a false allegation that the accused had outraged the modesty of a woman.
the learned magistrate by judgment dated 2 2 2001held the accused guilty of offences u ss 452 and 354 cr.
the appeal filed by the accused was dismissed by the addl.
sessions judge on 20 2 2002 the criminal revision filed by the appellant was disposed of by the high court on 16 3 2010 upholding the conviction but reducing the sentence from six to four months rigorous imprisonment.
one of the contentions urged by the accused before the appellate court and high court was that the charge against him was that he attempted to outrage the modesty of prakashi devi pw 1 whereas the evidence was to show that he attempted to outrage the modesty of her daughter in law sheela devi.
he contended that as the charge levelled against him was not proved and as he was not required to defend himself against a charge that he assaulted and outraged the modesty of sheela devi he ought to have been acquitted.
this was negatived by the appellate court and high court holding that an accused can not take advantage of a technical defect in framing the charge.
it was held that mentioning the name of prakashi devi instead of the name of sheela devi in the charge was an error that did not prejudice the accused.
s 211 of the code relates to the contents of the charge.
disregard of a provision of that nature is fatal to the trial and at once invalidates the conviction.
courts have to administer justice and justice includes the punishment of guilt just as much as the protection of innocence.
2001 indlaw sc 19904this court considered the meaning of the expression failure of justice occurring in s 464 of cr.
the high court set aside the conviction on the technical ground that the trial court had no jurisdiction as it was a special court specified in under the sc st prevention of atrocities act.
this court reversed the decision of the high court on the ground that a special court under the act being a sessions court it continued to have jurisdiction to try the case for the offence u s 376.
when the charge was that the accused attempted to commit trespass into the house of prakashi devi with intent to outrage the modesty of prakashi devi the conclusion of the appellate court and the high court that there was no failure of justice if he is punished for the offence of having assaulted sheela devi and outraging her modesty is opposed to principles of fair play and natural justice embodied in sections 211212215 and 464 of the code.
if sheela devi alone had been present at the house at the time of the incident and the accused had assaulted and outraged the modesty of the said sheela devi but in the charge the name of the victim had been erroneously mentioned say as sushila devi or prakashi devi though there was no person by such nameand the inquiry exclusively referred to the assault and outraging the modesty of sheela devi the court could infer that the accused was not misled and the error in the charge was immaterial.
on the other hand if two persons were present in the house at the time of the incident namely prakashi devi and sheela devi and the accused is charged with trespassing into the house of prakashi devi and assaulting and outraging the modesty of the said prakashi devi and the witnesses refer only to the assault and outraging the modesty of sheela devi the court will have to infer that the accused was prejudiced if the accused had solely concentrated and focused his defence and entire cross examination to show that he did not commit the offences against prakashi devi.
the court having charged the accused with the offence of having trespassed into the house of prakashi devi with intent to assault her and having further charged him for having assaulted the said prakashi devi by outraging her modesty convicts him on the ground that though he did not assault or outrage the modesty of prakashi devi he had outraged the modesty of sheela devi that would lead to failure of justice.
in view of the specific charge the accused concentrated on showing that the charge was false.
the accused was thus clearly misled by the error in the charge which caused prejudiced to the accused thereby occasioning failure of justice.
the appeal is therefore allowed the conviction of the accused is set aside and the matter is remitted to the trial court with a direction for a new trial after framing a charge by substituting the words her daughter in law sheela devi for the words abovenamed prakashi deviin the second part of the charge.
