leave granted.
these appeals have been preferred from the judgment and order of the high court dated 25 11 2009 in writ petitions civil no 464572009.
the appellants challenge the acquisition of their agricultural lands by the state of uttar pradesh for the construction of the district jail of shahjahanpur.
the appellants themselves are bhumidar with transferable rights and are residents of village murchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur uttar pradesh.
the state of uttar pradesh vide its office memorandum dated 25 10 2004 constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the honourable minister of revenue to suggest its recommendations for transfer of prisons situated in the congested areas of various districts.
after conducting its second and final meeting on 10th.
january2005the said committee recommended to the state government the shifting of the district jails from congested areas to outside the city limits within the district.
as per the schedule this shifting was to be done in two phases 1 st phase 1 district jail shahjahanpur 2 district jail azamgarh 3 district jail jaunpur and 4 district jail moradabad 2 nd phase 1 district jail badaun 2 district jail varanasi 3 district jail barielly and 4 district jail muzaffarnagar.
the existing district jail of shahjahanpur constructed in 1870was one of the oldest and required shifting to new premises.
the government case is that the district jail is located in a densely populated area of the city and is overcrowded housing as many as 1869 prisoners while having a capacity of only 511.
thereafter the state government constituted a committee under the chairmanship of chief secretary government of u p vide office memorandum dated 12 9 2007 to evaluate and consider the shifting of prisons identified to be shifted in the first phase.
prisons in the districts of lucknow moradabad were added to the list.
this committee was also to evaluate and recommend the means for modernisation of existing old prisons.
in its meeting dated 10 10 2007 the committee recommended that a detailed project report dpr be prepared by the rajkiya nirman nigam and that acquisition of lands for shifting of the prisons be done on a priority basis.
these recommendations were accepted by the state government vide the approval of the cabinet dated 7 12 2007 following this decision the director general of prisons administration and reformsuttar pradesh vide letter dated 04 06 2008requested the district magistrate shahjahanpur to send all the relevant records to the state government for publication of notification u ss 41 and 17 of the land acquisition act1894 hereinafter the act the land suggested for such acquisition by the divisional land utility committee was.
one admeasuring 25 89 hectares 63 93 acres in village morchha tehsil puwayan in the district of shahjahanpur.
thereafter the district magistrate shahjahanpur forwarded the proposal to the commissioner and director directorate of land acquisition revenue board uttar pradeshfor the issuance of notifications u ss 41 and 17 of the act which in turn approved of it and further forwarded the recommendation to the state government vide letter dated 2 07 2008.
thus the state government issued notifications u ss 41 and 17 on 21 08 2008.
however the provisions of section 5a inquiry were dispensed with.
the state government explained that this was done in view of the pressing urgency in the matter of construction of the jails.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid notifications the appellants moved a writ petition before the high court u art 226 of the constitution of india.
the high court in its decision dated 25 11 2009 refused to interfere with the selection of the site for the construction of the jail premises on the ground that it was not required to do so unless it found the selection of the site was wholly arbitrary.
the high court also approved the invoking of emergency provisions u s 17 of the act as per the guidelines given in essco fabs private limited and another vs state of haryana and another.
before this court the appellants broadly raised the following arguments 1 whether or not the state government was justified in acquiring the said pieces of fertile agricultural land when there were alternative sites of unfertile banjar land available.
2 whether or not the state government was justified in dispensing with the inquiry which is mandated to be conducted under section 5a of the act especially when one year elapsed between the notifications u s 4 and the one u s 6 they further stated that the high court had erred insofar as it upheld the factum of urgency in the absence of a categorical finding an enquiry under section 5a would have been detrimental to public interest.
it was urged that it was clear from the counter of the respondent that the contemplation of a new prison was under consideration of the state government for several years.
this court finds a lot of substance in the contentions of the appellants.
admittedly the land acquisition act a pre constitutional legislation of colonial vintage is a drastic law being expropriatory in nature as it confers on the state a power which affects person s property right.
this court is of the opinion that the concept of public purpose in land acquisition has to be viewed from an angle which is consistent with the concept of a welfare state.
the concept of public purpose can not remain static for all time to come.
the said definition having suffered several amendments has assumed the character of an inclusive one.
it must be accepted that in construing public purpose a broad and overall view has to be taken and the focus must be on ensuring maximum benefit to the largest number of people.
even though the concept of public purpose was introduced by pre constitutional legislation its application must be consistent with the constitutional ethos and especially the chapter under fundamental rights and also the directive principles.
in construing the concept of public purpose the mandate of art 13 of the constitution that any pre constitutional law can not in any way take away or abridge rights conferred under part iii must be kept in mind.
by judicial interpretation the contents of these part iii rights are constantly expanded.
the meaning of public purpose in acquisition of land must be judged on the touchstone of this expanded view of part iii rights.
therefore the concept of public purpose on this broad horizon must also be read into the provisions of emergency power u s 17 with the consequential dispensation of right of hearing under section 5a of the said act.
the judiciary in its sphere shares the revolutionary purpose of the constitutional order and when called upon to decode social legislation must be animated by a goal oriented approach.
in other words public purpose must be viewed through the prism of constitutional values as stated above.
in dlf qutab enclave complex educational charitable trust vs state of haryana and ors 2003 5 scc 622 2003 indlaw sc 124this court construed the statute on town planning law and held expropriatory statute as is well known must be strictly construed.
the same principle has been reiterated subsequently by a three judge bench of this court in state of maharashtra and anr vs b e billimoria and ors 2003 7 scc 336 2003 indlaw sc 618 in the context of ceiling law.
ltd and ors 2007.
in the background of the aforesaid discussion this court proceeds to examine the scope of a person s right under section 5a of the act.
the history behind insertion of section 5a in the act of 1894 seems to be a decision of the division bench of calcutta high court in j e d ezra vs the secretary of state for india and ors reported in 7 c w n 249 in that case the properties of ezra were sought to be acquired under the pre amended provision of the act for expansion of the offices of the bank of bengal.
in challenging the said acquisition it was argued that the person whose property is going to be taken away should be allowed a hearing on the principles of natural justice.
however the judges found that there was no such provision in the act.
as early as in 1964this court in nandeshwar prasad and ors vs u p government and ors.
in that case the court was considering the importance of rights under section 5a vis vis s 171 and s 171.
a of the act.
the same view has been reiterated by another three judge bench decision of this court in munshi singh and ors.
in hindustan petroleum corporation limited vs darius shahpur chennai and ors 2005 7 scc 627 2005 indlaw sc 578this court held that the right which is conferred under section 5a has to be read considering the provisions of article 300 a of the constitution and so construed the right under section 5a should be interpreted as being akin to a fundamental.
this court held that the same being the legal position the procedures which have been laid down for depriving a person of the said right must be strictly complied with.
this court therefore held that once a case is covered under sub s 1 or 2 of section 17sub s 4 of s 17 would not necessarily apply.
in the writ petition before the high court the petitioners have given the details of the land holding and it has also been stated that the entire holding of petitioners 25791011 and 13 have been acquired and as a result of such acquisition the petitioners have become landless.
this slow pace at which the government machinery had functioned in processing the acquisition clearly evinces that there was no urgency for acquiring the land so as to warrant invoking s 17 4 of the act.
in the facts of this case such acquisition can not be made by invoking emergency provisions of s 17 if so advised government can initiate acquisition proceeding by following the provision of section 5a of the act and in accordance with law.
for the reasons aforesaid we hold that the state government was not justified in the facts of this case to invoke the emergency provision of s 174 of the act.
the valuable right of the appellants under section 5a of the act can not flatten and steamrolled on the ipsi dixit of the executive authority.
appeals allowed.
