Learned counsel for the appellant also drew our attention to another decision of this Court in 830 The Patna Electric Supply Co. Ltd. Patna vs Bali Rai(1).
In this case the tribunal held that the exercise of power was colourable and it cannot be said that view is incorrect.
The appellant thereupon applied for special leave which was granted; and that is how the matter has come up before us.
That case in our opinion has no application to the facts of this case because that case dealt with an application under section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act while the present proceedings are under section 10 of the Act and the considerations which apply under section 33 are different in many respects from those which apply to an adjudication under section 10.
We have already said that this position cannot be accepted in industrial adjudication relating to termination of service of an employee and has not been accepted by industrial tribunals over a long course of years now and the view taken by industrial tribunals has been upheld by this Court in the two cases referred to above.
As far back as 1952, the Labour Appellate Tribunal had occasion to consider this matter relating to discharge by notice or in lieu thereof by payment of wages for a certain period without assigning any reason: (see Buckingham and Carnatic Co. Ltd. Etg.
The appellant in a saw mill carrying on business in Kozihkode in 824 the State of Kerala.
The industrial court in our opinion has the right to inquire into the causes that might have led to termination of service even under a rule like 18(a) and if it is satisfied that the action taken under such a rule was a colourable exercise of power and was not bona fide or was a result of victimisation or unfair labour practice it would have jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.
The appellant failed to satisfy the tribunal when the matter came before it for adjudication that the exercise of the power in this case was bona fide and was not colourable.
He was caught hold of by other workmen and taken outside.
The appeal therefore fails and is hereby dismissed with costs.
