(3) was amended by the addition of the words "unless there has been a succession by virtue of which the provisions of sub section
This would support the view that the old partnership was dissolved for it would not have otherwise given up those businesses.
That clause states that the partners in their individual capacity would be partners with Hemchand in another business the terms of which partnership appear in another partnership agreement of the same date and which is annexure C 1.
This condition, of course, is applicable only where, as in the present case, the business was carried on by a firm.
So the firm created by annexure C I could not have been a ,continuation of the 1918 partnership.
The Madras case cannot, however, be made applicable to the present facts, because, as pointed out already by me, there was no cessation of business in so far as the original business of piece goods, yarn and banking was concerned.
If this is not the correct view, then cl. 20 would be inexplicable.
Hemchand was given a share only in the newly started businesses to which section 25 could not possibly apply.
It may be 105 that the partnership of 1918 was carried on in the same name as the firm referred to in annexure C I but we are not ,aware that an identity of names establishes that the two firms are same.
If there was a succession, then, sub section
The Income tax Act thinks, not in terms of joint family business, but in terms of business in a business sense, and it is the business which was taxed under the Act of 1918 which must cease to exist before the benefit of section 25(3) can be obtained.
But the Income tax Act recognises a firm for purposes of assessment as a unit independent of the partners constituting it; it invests the firm with a personality which survives reconstitution.
The preamble was as follows: ". .
" Therefore when in sub section
The Tribunal also held that the business in soap and umbrella was different from the business of banking, piece goods and yarn, and the amalgamation of these two businesses in 1943 amounted to a succession by a newly constituted firm.
But it must be remembered that under section 25(4), a mere change in the constitution of the partnership does not count and sections 25 (4) and 26 (2) do not apply at the same time.
It is on this basis that it claimed the benefit of section 25 (4) of the Act.
It seems to us beyond question that the partnership mentioned in annexure C I is different from the partnership which was brought about by the instrument of December 6, 1918 for the partners in the two firms were not the same.
This latter firm could not have been brought about by a change in the constitution of an existing firm, for there were two existing firms and they could not become one by simple changes in their constitution.
(4) was added, sub section
It contends that it had been carrying on a business on April 1, 1939 from before and on that business tax had been charged under the Act of 1918 and that it was succeeded by a company as owner of the business as a result of a transfer by an instrument executed on February 7, 1948.
And whereas the remaining partners are willing and have agreed to take as new partners Leeladhar Narayanjee Sait and Prabhulal Narayanjee Sal , sons of Narayanjee Purushotham Sait as from 31 10 1943.
The facts have to be stated at some length but before we do that we think it would be profitable to set out the statutory provisions concerned.
This case is another example of the difference of approach to the same facts under the law of partnership and the Income tax law.
Indeed the instrument of October 30, 1943 which brought the transferor firm, the appellant before us, into existence, expressly states that "The Agreements of Partnerships dated 30th May 1939. are hereby revoked".
Section 26 recognises the existence of a firm as an asses sable unit and provides for taxation in the event of changes in the constitution of firms.
This would show that the old partnership of 1918 had given up doing some of its existing businesses and it was decided to carry them on under a new partnership agreement.
If the 1918 firm was thus dissolved it could not, of course, be continued.
In this way all cases of discontinuance of business are treated under the 3rd sub section and all cases of succession under the fourth sub section and all cases of mere change in the constitution of the firm, are neither cases under the third nor under the fourth subsections.
It refers to the two "agreements of partnership of May 30, 1939" and certain retirements of partners and admission of new partners and provides that the parties to the instrument had agreed to carry on "as one single partnership" the busi nesses carried on previously by the two partnerships referred to in the instruments of May 30, 1939.
There cannot, therefore, be a case in which both the sub sections apply at the same time, because the intention is obviously to keep them separate and when sub section
(4) is on succession to a person who, on April J., 1939, was carrying on any business on which tax was at any time charged under the Act of 1918.
These however were heard together by the High Court and disposed of by one judgment.
Learned counsel relied on cl.1 of annexure C I and contended that itprovided for the continuance of the old firm, that is, thefirm constituted by the instrument of December 6, 1918 and hence no new firm had been created.
(4) have been rendered applicable.
" In C2, the preamble was: " . . .
Lord Simonds pointed out that on January 1, 1939, Polson had ceased to be the owner of the business and therefore he was not carrying it on "at the commencement of" the amending Act.
From the record it appears that the old and the new businesses were also separately assessed.
These facts are fundamental, because, if the umbrella and soap business were never assessed to tax under the Act of 1918, they are out of the picture and in respect of these businesses, the assessee firm was not at all entit (1) (2) ; 121 led to relief.
Though we are directly concerned with sub sec.
Next, we have to find out what is comprehended within the expression "a change in the constitution of a partnership".
That was a case of a joint family business which on partition was split up between different members of the family. 'It was held that as a result of this splitting up there was a discontinuance of the original business at the date of the partition and on such discontinuance the family became entitled to relief under section 25(3) It is of some significance to point out that the partners constituting the appellant at the moment of the transfer in 1948 also thought that in 1937 the old firm ceased to exist and its business was carried on thereafter by two independent firms, for the document of October 30, 1943 has referred to annexures C 1 and C 11 as constituting two independent partnerships and proceeded to revoke them both and provided that the parties to the instrument "have (1) 107 agreed to carry on and continue as one single partnership business the existing partnership businesses of Sait Nagjee Purushotham and Co., Bankers, Piece goods and Yarn Mer chants, Sait Nagjee Purushotham and Co., Soap and Umbrella Merchants.
In this case, we have, therefore, to find out firstly what is meant by discontinuance of a business.
Now it will be seen that under sub sec.
So one of the conditions on which relief under section 25(4) of the Act could be claimed was not satisfied and the claim would not be maintainable.
This is also clear from the words "not being merely a change in the constitution of a partnership." Since the In come tax Act assesses a partnership as a unit and such units (1) Civil Appeal NO.
of the firm.
