This was of course subject to any law passed by the New State provided that law was within its competence and after the Constitution came into force did not transgress the limitations contained therein.
The first was that each time a merger took place the new State by a provision in the Covenant took over the assets and liabilities of the merging States.
In the present case we have only the continuance of the old laws and the valuable evidence afforded by article VI of the Covenant and there is nothing to show that the right to claim refund was taken away by any law competently passed.
Then came another union of certain other Rulers in Rajasthan in March 1948 by which these Rulers united under the Ruler of Udaipur to form what later came to be known as the Former State of Rajasthan.
It was a new sovereign and was not bound by any obligation against the old sovereign of the former State of Dholpur unless it chose to recognise the obligation.
In reply to this contention of the State, the respondent relied on article 295(2) of the Constitution and other provisions made during the period when mergers were taking place after August 15, 1947 and contended that in view of article 295(2) of the Constitution the State of Rajasthan was bound by the obligation of the former State of Dholpur.
The suit out 'of which appeal No. 887 has arisen was filed by the respondent against the State of Rajasthan.
In this view of the matter we need not express any view on the question whether the expression "Government of the corresponding Indian State" used in Art 295(2) would mean only the United State of Rajasthan as it was on January 26, 1950 or would also include all the former States which came to be merged in the United State of Rajasthan as it was on January 26,1950.
It is also not in dispute that the assets and liabilities of the Matsya Union were taken over as the assets and liabilities of the United State of Rajasthan in which the Matsya Union merged.
In that case, however, this Court refused to treat article VI even as evidence because it pointed out that the first act of the new sovereign was the application of the Patiala State laws, including the Patiala Income tax Act, to the territories of Jind involving negation of the rights claimed in that case.
We therefore agree with the Full Bench that the liability lay upon the State of Rajasthan because there was recognition of the liability even on the principles enunciate in the Dalmia Dadri Cement Company 's case(1).
When this merger took place it is not in dispute that the exis ting laws were to continue till they were repealed or altered by the new State.
Res pondent in Appeal No. 887 will get his costs from the appel lant.
In March 1949, the United State of Rajasthan was formed by Covenant entered into by fourteen Rulers of Rajasthan, including these who had formed the Former State of Rajasthan.
