If the other method is adopted, tax will not be payable .
" The High Court held that from the language of the letter of July 7, 1837, it was manifest that the right which was conferred 703 was a right to a share of one fourth in the net land revenue collections after deducting costs of Tahsil establishment.
He refers to the following passage from the speech of Viscount Simon in Commissioner of Inland Revenue vs Wesleyan and General Assurance Society(1): "It may be well to repeat two propositions which are well established in the application of the law relating to Income tax.
Mr. Sastri contends that it is capital receipt.
The letter by which the amount of pension was determined at Rs. 36,322/8/ is dated 7th of July, 1837 and was from H. Elliot Esqr., the Secretary Sadar Board of Revenue N.W.P. Allahabad, to J. Thompson Esqr., Offg.
He observed that "in fact this income arose from a statutory obligation of the Government to pay it, and although the Government recouped this from the person with whom the land was settled, land in the genealogical tree of Malikana appears in the second degree, its immediate and effective source is the Government 's statutory obligation to pay it, and this obligation is not land within the meaning of Income tax Act, vide C.I.T.v.
By this arrangement the revenue or land collections of Jagir became payable by the Zamindars direct to the Government and by the grant of the pension, Babu Hat Narain Singh and his successors no longer remained the proprietors of the Parganas or the Jagir and became entitled to merely a pension.
We are unable to agree with his contention.
Shah, J., speaking for the Court, observed: "Because the annual allowance is equal to a fourth share of the net revenue of the mahals, the right of the respondent does not acquire the character of an interest in land or in land revenue.
It relied on the fact that the amount which had been received by the successors of Babu Harnarain Singh varied from year to year.
If this is the true interpretation of the arrangement arrived at, the question arises whether the pension or allowance is agricultural income. 'Agricultural income ' is defined in section 2 of the Act as follows: "(1) "agricultural income" means (a) any rent or revenue derived from land which is used for agricultural purposes and is either assessed to land revenue in British India or subject to a local rate assessed and collected by officers of the Crown as such: . " In Maharajkumar Gopal Saran Narain Singh vs Commissioner of Income tax, Bihar and Orissa(2), the facts were that the assessee had conveyed the greater portion of his estate.
The allowance was in a sense related to the land revenue assessed on the land, i.e. it was fixed as a percentage of the land revenue; but the percentage was merely a measure, and indicated the source of the right in lieu of which the allowance was given.
