The Desai award dealt with the method of adjustment in the scales of pay fixed by it from para 5.329 onwards.
" The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present ,case was this.
C. K. Daphtary, Attorney General, section V. Gupte, Solicitor General, Niren De, Addl.
It divided the employees of the banks with which it was concerned in two groups.
292 and certain provisions were made thereunder.
in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified will be added thereto for service for the two years of 1960 and 1961.
We may at this stage mention that a similar question of fit ment was considered by the Sastry award in para.
(1) As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
It is unnecessary to set out the facts of the two appeals at this stage.
The workman 's basic pay as on 31st January 1960 shall not be reduced in any case.
These two appeals by special leave raise a common question as to the interpretation of paragraph 5.356 of the National Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes) Award of June 1962 (popularly known as the Desai award) and will be dealt with together.
(b)To the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause (a) annual increment or increment& in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
C.A. 1008 allowed.
In addition he is entitled to two increments on account of being a graduate and one increment on account of his having passed the Indian Institute of Bankers ' examination.
(iv) could be allowed.
(iv) his salary will be fixed at Rs. 100.
(i) this cannot be less than the actual basic pay of the workman as on January 1, 1959.
(iv) which provides for actual calculations starts with the words "subject to rules (i) to (iii)" and therefore the actual calculations made under cl.
(i) and the basic pay to be fixed on January 1, 1959, has to be fixed by reading sub cls.
5.348 of the Desai award.
In addition the workman will be entitled to draw his normal increment for 1953on 1st April 1963.
The first group consisted of workmen who were drawing basic pay on January 1, 1962 according to scales of pay provided by the ALL India Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes) Award, 1953 (popularly known as the Sastry award) as modified by the Labour Appellate Tribunal Decision (Bank Disputes).
(iv) being subject to cl.
Nakodar is now in area III in the Desai award.
The bank claimed that under cl.
Thereafter each succeeding year 's annual increment shall take effect as and from 1st April of that year.
C.A. 1009 is hereby dismissed.
3.In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars, whether in the previously existing or in the scales fixed by us should be ignored.
In the present appeals we are concerned with workmen who entered service before January 1, 1959, and the fitment of these workmen was dealt with in para.
"We have already referred to the fact that para.
Thus the bank 's case was that once the maximum arrived at by point to point adjustment as on January 1, 1962, was reached under cl.
(iii) In the matter of adjustment, all efficiency bars, whether in the previously existing scales or in the scales provided by the Sastry award as modified should be ignored.
(ii) the method of fitment provided in cl.
(d) which will bring his salary to Rs. 112 as on January 1, 1962.
It will be seen from the above comparison of the provisions in the two awards that the substantial provisions of the Desai award are exactly the same as the provisions of the Sastry award as modified except (i) for changes necessitated by the fact that the Desai award was being given in 1962 and (ii) the provision in the Sastry award corresponding to sub cl.
Solicitor General, K. B. Mehta, V. Sagar, H. L. Anand and B. C. Das Gupta, for the appellants.
This follows from the fact that the workman 's basic pay as on January 1, 1959 cannot be reduced and therefore when cl.
(ii) and cl.
But as we, have held that in cl.
