That is why he confirmed the finding of the trial Judge on the question of adverse possession, though on a somewhat different ground.
It may be permissible to state that this latter observation was made in 1899 long before the Privy Council enunciated the true legal position in regard to the status of the managers of Hindu religious endowments in Vidya Varuthi 's case(1).
Article 134 B applies to all cases where it is shown that the immovable property was comprised in the endowment and that it has been transferred by a previous manager for a valuable consideration.
The High Court has relied on the fact that the alienor is still alive, and so, it thought that the plea of adverse possession could not be sustained.
Mr. Tatachari for the appellants has raised before us an interesting question of law.
The lower appellate Court does not appear to have considered or made any specific or clear finding on this aspect of the matter.
Reverting then to the question as to whether a transfer effected by the manager of a temple in regard to properties belonging to the temple falls outside the purview of article 134 B if it is shown to have been made on the basis that the transferor treated the properties as his own, it does appear that the two earlier Privy Council decisions in Gnanasambanda 's(2) and Damodar Das 's(3) cases lend some support to the contention.
On that view of the matter, we must hold that the trial Judge and 133 the lower appellate Court were right in decreeing the appellants ' suit in its entirety.
These two judgments have, no doubt been incidentally referred to by the Privy Council in Mahant Ram Charan Das vs Naurangi Lal and Others(3), and in Mahadeo Prasad Singh and Others vs Karia Bharti(4) though the decision in the said two cases proceeded in the light of the legal position enunciated by the Privy Council in Vidya Varuthi 's case(4).
The learned trial Judge examined the whole evidence and came to the conclusion that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam, and that it was not a grant in favour of the religious endowment within the meaning of the Act.
Before this order could be executed and possession delivered to respondents 1 to 3, the appellants instituted the present suit.
The alternative plea made by the appellants that they had acquired title to the properties by prescription, was also upheld by the trial Judge.
In the circumstances of this case, we direct that parties should bear their own costs.
He contends that article 134 B would not apply to the present case, because the alienations evidenced by Exts.
The possession of the vendees in regard to the properties covered by the said sale deed was held to have conferred title on them.
The period prescribed for such suits is 12 years, and the time from which the period begins to run is the death, resignation or removal of the transferor.
" It is not easy to see why the successor 's right to Challenge an unauthorised alienation made by his predecessor should be affected adversely if the alienation is made by his predecessor on the basis that the property belonged to him and not to the religious endowment.
That is how the first two issues were answered in favour of the appellants.
For deciding this question, it is necessary to refer to some material facts.
