Had the matter rested there it would have been a question whether this Court should interfere with a subjective opinion, when the affidavit showed that there were materials for consideration.
The words "in the opinion of" govern the words "there are circumstances suggesting" and not the words "may do so".
This paragraph is in answer to paragraph 21 of the writ petition.
It would be destroying the beneficial effective use of the powers given by the section to say that the Board must first show that a fraud can clearly be said to have.been committed.
These inferences are of many kinds and it will be useful to make a mention of them here in a tabular form: (a) that the business is being conducted with intent to defraud (i) creditors of the company, or (ii) members, 336 or (iii) any other person; (b) that the business is being conducted (i) for a fraudulent purpose or (ii) for an unlawful purpose; (c) that persons who formed the company or manage its affairs have been guilty of (i) fraud or (ii) misfeasance or other misconduct to wards the company or towards any of its members.
The investigation, according to Mr. Setalvad.
Then he stated: 'However, if in spite of what has been stated and contrary to the submissions above, this Han 'ble Court still holds that it is necessary for the Court to examine the relevant material in (1)[1961] I S.C.R. 417.
In paragraph 10 Mr. Dutt has taken the plea that the petition was liable to be dismissed as it had not been made bona fide but for extraneous reasons and to create prejudice with a view to thwart statutory investigation.
(b) thereof confers, a discretion upon the Board to appoint an Inspector to investigate the affairs of a company.
(a) of sub section
The Board.
We are not concerned with cls.
individual might think that : the ;facts suggest otherwise It cannot be said that from a huge loss incurred by a company and the working of the company in a disorganised and un businegslike way, the only conclusion possible is that it was due to lack of capability.
In other words this is an argument that the order was made mala fide.
It is not disputed that a court can,not go into the question of the aptness or sufficiency of the grounds ,upon which the subjective satisfaction of an authority is based.
The High Court did not look into the documents.
The Attorney General disputes this construction and contends that the clause is incapable of a dichotomy and that the subjective process embraces the formation of an opinion that circumstances suggestive of any of the matters comprised in sub cls.
At any rate the case was argued on this footing.
" In view of the fact that the Central Government, by virtue of the powers conferred by sections 10 E and 637 delegated its powers under section 237 to them Company Law Board we shall read section 237 as if in place of the words "Central Government" there are the words "Company Law Board" or for brevity 'Board '.
Then follows paragraph 14 upon which Mr. Setalvad has founded an argument that the grounds disclosed therein being extraneous the order is invalid.
In paragraph 5 Mr. Dutt has set out that the petition is liable to be dismissed summarily being grounded on facts which are, false, speculative and lacking in material particulars.
Coming to the third point of Mr. Setalvad pointed out that four ex Directors of the Company who had resigned submitted a 327 memorandum to Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari while he was holding the office of Finance Minister in which grave allegations were made concerning the affairs of the Company and the management of the Company by the second appellant.
There is no doubt that few share holders have the means or ability to act against the Management.
No jurisdiction, outside the section which empowers the initiation of investigation, can be exercised.
According to the appellants, before entering into a collaboration agreement with M/s. L. A. Mitchell Ltd., the appellant No. 2 Balasubramanian was negotiating with a German firm named Kali Chemie A. G. of Hanover for obtaining their collaboration.
On June 4, 1965 the Company preferred a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution in the Punjab High Court for the issue of a writ of mandamus or other appropriate writ, direction or order quashing the order of the Board dated May 19, 1965.
It is said that the plaint was producing at that time only 25 per cent of its installed capacity but that according to the assurance given by Lord Poole it would yield full production by April, 1966.
(i) to (iii) is a condition precedent to the formation of the opinion.
It will thus be clear that what are characterised by Mr. Setalvad as the grounds upon which the order of the Board is based are nothing more than certain conclusions drawn by the Boar& from some of the material which it had before it.
(1) of section 637 read with sub section
The Chairman alone could, therefore, pass the impugned order.
This is indicated by the enumeration of the four circumstances, I have extracted from his affidavit and I proceed to analyse them.
of the company, the activities of the company and other related matters have been set out.
In the other part of the affidavit the Chairman has merely repeated section 237(b) but has not stated how he came to the conclusion and on what material.
Here Mr. Dutt has stated that it was not competent to the Court to go into the question of adequacy or otherwise of the material on the basis of which orders under section 237(b) are passed by the Board.
If the facts do reasonably suggest any of these things to the Board, the power can be exercised,though another.
Moreover the expression "inter alia" used by Mr. Dutt would show that the conclusions set out by him specifically are not the only ones which could be drawn from the material referred to by, him in paragraph 5 of his affidavit.
" The order was made by the Chairman of the Board, Mr. R. C. Dutt on behalf of the Board by virtue of the powers conferred on him by certain rules to which we shall refer later.
He contends that though the opinion of the Board is subjective the existence of circumstances set out in the sub cls.
Now, if it can be shown that the 'Board had in fact not formed an opinion its order could be successfully challenged.
Then he has set out the circumstances upon which his contention is based.
It is not necessary to go into it.
The High Court rejected the contentions urged before it on behalf of the appellants and dismissed the writ petition.
(D to (iii) and not about any thing else.
Nor was there any indication in the affidavit what their drift was.
Mr. Setalvad points out that the Company Law Board had decided in December 1964 to take action against appellant No. I under section 237(b) and had actually obtained approval of Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari to the proposed action.
that some directors have resigned does not establish fraud or misconduct.
It would furthermore be difficult for the shareholders to find out the facts leading to the poor financial condition of a company.
(1) of section 10E of the , the Central Government delegated its powers and functions to the Board under section 237(b) among others.
The scope for judicial review of the action of the Board must, therefore, be strictly limited.
(1) of section 642 read with sub section
Apart from this we do not think that the conclusions set out in paragraph 14 are extraneous to the matters indicated in the order of May 19, 1965.
The discretion conferred to order an investigation is administrative and not judicial since 323 its exercise one way or the other does not affect the rights of a company nor does it lead to any serious consequences as, for instance, hampering the business of the company.
The new sub section involves a delegation of the powers of the Central Government to a member of the Board which the Act previously allowed to be made to the Board only.
In paragraph 13 he has stated that without prejudice to his submissions in the earlier paragraphs he would reply to allegations contained in the various paragraphs of the writ petition.
It also empowers the Board to require the applicants to furnish security for such amount, not exceeding one thousand rupees as it may think fit, for the payment of the costs of the investigation.
They have now come up to this Court by special leave.
Mr. Setalvad said that as the appellants had made out a prima facie case of mala fides in their affidavits, and as these allegations had been denied by the respondents, the High Court was in error in refusing permission to the appellants to cross examine the persons who swore the affidavits on the side of the respondents.
(4A) added recently to section 10E enabling the solidarity of the Board to be broken.
That is how action was taken in the name of the Board but by the Chairman and is the subject of challenge for the reason that a power delegated to the Board as a whole cannot be delegated to an individual member in the absence of a provision such as sub section
Distribution of business The Chairman may, with the previous approval of the Central Government, by order in writing, distribute the business of the Board among himself and the other member or members, and specify the cases or classes of cases which shall be considered jointly by the Board.
Simultaneously acting in exercise of the powers conferred by sub section
The appellants also say that T. T. Krishnamachari & Sonswere later a so granted a licence to set up a plant for manufacturing barium chemicals but that on appellant No. 2 bringing certainfacts: to the notice of Mr. Nehru the licence in favour of T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons was revoked.
As already stated the appellant had challenged the provisions of section 237(b) on the ground that they are violative of the fundamental rights under articles 14 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.
Turning to paragraph 16 of the affidavit we find that Mr. Dutt has clearly reiterated that there was ample material before the Board on which it could and did form the opinion that there were circumstances suggesting that as stated in the order of May, 19, 1965, the business of the company was being conducted with intent to defraud creditors, members and other persons and further that the persons concerned in the management of the affairs of the company had in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
M. C. Setalvad, R. K. Garg and section C. Agarwala, for the appellants.
In my opinion there is nothing to show that the, reports which were being received from September 1961, or the report of the Special Police Establishment indicated fraud.
for which the 'collaborators had put the responsibility upon the Managing Director, Petitioner No. 2: (ii) Since its flotation the company has been continuously showing losses and nearly 1/3rd of its share capital has been wiped off; (iii)that the shares of the company which to start with were at a premium were being quoted on the Stock Exchange at half their face value; and (iv)some eminent persons who had initially accepted seats on the Board of Directors of the company had subsequently severed their connections with it due to differences with Petitioner No. 2 on account of the manner in which the affairs of the company were being conducted.
Its object is to find out the facts.
In this case it is not necessary to decide it because the affidavit goes on to state: ". . .
The report was next considered by two Under Secretaries arid by the Secretary of the Company Law board who all agreed "that there was need for a deeper probe into the affairs of the Company".
An examination of the section would show that cl.
324 order to do justice, then the Board would have no objection to producing the same for the Court 's perusal provided it is not shown to the petitioners.
In our opinion, therefore, the argument of Mr. Setalvad about the circumstances being extraneous cannot be accepted.
The Managing Director, Mr. Balasubramanian joined in the petition as petitioner No. 2.
Quite obviously there is a difference between not forming an opinion at all and forming an opinion upon grounds, which, if a court could go into that question at all, could be regarded as inapt or insufficient or irrelevant.
, J. was delivered by MUDHOLKAR, J HIDAYATULLAH.
The relevance of these facts is in connection with the plea of mala fides.
By section 237(b) the power is conferred on the Central Government but under the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1963 a Board of Company Law,, Administration consisting of a Chairman and a member has been set up.
The second respondent is Mr. T. T. Krishnamachari, who was at that time Minister for Finance in the Government of India.
The firm of T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons approached appellant No. 2 for the grant of sole selling, agency of the products of the plant to be established in collaboration with Kali Chemie.
The naming of I delegate to, do an act involving a discretion indicates that the delegate was selected because of his peculiar skill and the confidence reposed in him, and there is a presumption that he is required to do the act himself and cannot redelegate his authority.
We are concerned really with the affidavits of the Chairman and Mr. Dang in relation to the exercise of the power conferred by section 237(b).
If the decision arrived at by the Chairman was an independent one it cannot be said to have been rendered mala fide because it was later approved by Mr. Krishnamachari whose sons undoubtedly constitute the partnership firm of M/s. T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons.
The decision to take action was already taken by the Chairman and there is nothing to indicate that in arriving at that decision he was influenced by the Finance Minister.
The writ petition is directed against 7 respondents, the first of which is the 318 Company Law Board.
(2)[1944] F.C.R. 1.
If section 237(b) is used by members, as an alternative to section 236, the evidence must unerringly point to the grounds on which alone action can be founded.
In such a case it would not be appropriate for this Court while hearing an appeal by special leave to interfere lightly with the exercise of that discretion.
The order of the Board was challenged on 5 grounds which are briefly as follows: (1) that the order was made mala fide; (2) that in making the order the Board had acted on material extraneous to the matters mentioned in section 237(b) of the ; (3) that the order having in fact been made at the instance of the shareholders is invalid and on a true construction of section 237 this could not be done; (4) that the order was invalid because it was made by the Chairman of the Board and not by the Board; and (5) that the provisions of section 237(b) are void as offending articles 14 and 19(1) (g) of the Constitution.
delivered separate judgments allowing the Appeal.
It is only after the, formation of, certain opinion by the Board that the stage for exercising the discretion conferred by the provision is reached.
The learned Attorney General submitted that a distribution of business among the members of the Company Law Board is not a delegation of its authority, and the maxim has no application in 341 such a case.
In fact, paragraph 16 is no more than a mechanical repetition of the words of the section.
it has to be borne in mind that what the Board is to be satisfied about is whether the circumstances suggest any of these things and not whether they establish any of these things.
Clause (a) of this section provides that in the case of a company having a share capital the investigation can be ordered either on the application of not less than 200 members or of members holding not less than one tenth of the total voting power therein.
Since this affidavit is in answer to the allegations made in the writ petition the two ;should be considered together.
They disputed the validity of all the other grounds raised by the petitioners.
In order to appreciate the arguments addressed before us a brief statement of the relevant facts would be necessary.
As my brother Shelat has put it trenchantly: "It is not reasonable to say that the clause permitted the government to say that it has formed the opinion on circumstances which it thinks exist. . . .
Apart from the relief of quashing the order of May 19, 1965 the appellants sought the ' issue of a writ restraining the Company Law Board and the Inspectors from giving effect to the order dated May 19, 1965 and also sought some other incidental reliefs.
This is what was said by the Federal Court in Emperor vs Shibnath Banerjee(2) and approved later by the Privy Council.
Therefore, according to him, the Court is entitled to ascertain whether in fact any of those circumstances exists.
Lord Coleridge, C. J. said at p. 262: "It was not competent to them to delegate powers, which required the united action of the three, to be exercised according to the unaided judgment of one of them." Again, in Vine vs National Dock Labour Board(1), the House of Lords, held that a local board set up, under the scheme embodied in the schedule to the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Order, 1947 had no power to assign its disciplinary function under cls.
The court has to find the facts and if it finds that it can do so without cross examination it is not compelled to permit cross examination.
Section 235 deals with "Investigation of affairs of company on application by members or report by Registrar".
What is the Board, is not a question which admits of solution by procedural rules but by the enactment of a substantive provision allowing for a different delegation.
The allegations of mala fides were denied on behalf of the respondents.
Neither proves the existence of circumstances under which the power could be exercised.
Section 637 shows that the function under section 237 can be delegated to the Board and to no other authority.
was the outcome of this memorandum and that by ordering it the Board has in effect enabled the ex Directors who continue to be shareholders to circumvent the provisions of sections 235 and 236 of the .
I leave that question to be decided in another case where it arises.
The Inspectors: appointed are respondents 3 to 6 and Mr. Dang is the 7th respondent.
Coming to the second point, it would be desirable to repro duce section 237 which reads thus: "Without prejudice to its powers under section 235 the Central Government (a) shall appoint one or more competent persons as inspectors to investigate the affairs of a company and to report thereon in such manner as the Central Government may direct, if (i) the company, by special resolution, or (ii) the Court, by order, declares that the affairs of the company ought to be investigated by an inspector appointed by the Central Government; and (b) may do so if, in the opinion of the Central Government, there are circumstances suggesting (i) that the business of the company is being conducted with intent to defraud its creditors, members or any other persons, or otherwise for a fraudulent or unlawful purpose, or in a manner oppressive of any of its members, or that the company was formed for any fraudulent or unlawful purpose; or (ii) that persons concerned in the formation of the company or the management of its affairs have in connection therewith been guilty of fraud, misfeasance or other misconduct towards the company or towards any of its members; or (iii) that the members of the company have not been given all the information with respect to its 322 affairs.
The material must suggest certain inferences and not the need for "a deeper probe".
(1) As soon as may be after the commencement of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1963, the Central Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute a Board to be called the Board of Company Law Admin istration to exercise and discharge such powers and functions conferred on the Central Government by or under this Act or any other law as may be delegated to it by that Government.
If the information or explanation is not furnished or is unsatisfactory the Registrar can report to the Central Government for action.
As has been pointed out by this Court in Raja Narayanalal Bansilal vs Maneck Phiroz Mistry & Anr.(1) the investigation undertaken under this provision is for ascertaining facts and is thus merely exploratory.
(4A) may be exercised by the Board independently of any rules framed by the Central Government.
Section 236 provides that such application has to be supported by such evidence as the Board (reading 'Board ' for 'Central Government ') may require.
I am, there fore, inclined to think that he formed the opinion without applying his mind to the facts.
specified in sub cls.
(5) merely enables the procedure of the Board to be regulated.
The contention is that though the Board acted upon the memorandum submitted by four ex Directors it did not even require them to comply with the provisions of section 236.
In this paragraph Mr. Dutt has admitted some of the facts stated in paragraphs 1 to 19.
In paragraph 9 Mr. Dutt has categorically stated that the order of May 19, 1965 was passed after careful and independent examination of the material by the Chairman and that it was issued in proper exercise of the powers conferred upon it.
BACHAWAT and SHELAT JJ.
When ' members apply they must support their application by evidence and give security for costs of investigation.
I shall now consider the question of mala fides.
In the exercise of the power conferred by this rule, the Chairman assigned the business under section 237 to himself.
It is said that the firm of M/s. T. T. Krishnamachari & Sons were and still are the sole agents in India for some of the products of Kali Chemie.
(5) of section 10E the Central Government made the Company Law Board (Procedure) Rules, 1964 and one such rule dealt with distribution of business to the following effect: "3.
Our learned brother Shelat has dealt with this aspect of the matter fully in his judgment and as we agree with him it is not necessary to say much on the point.
