The word "turnover" is defined in section 2(i) of the Act to mean "the aggregate amount for which goods are either bought or sold by a dealer, whether for cash or for deferred payment or other valuable consideration. ".
The respondent thereafter moved the Madras High Court under article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the orders of the Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.
The Division Bench consisting of section Ramachandra Iyer, C.J. and Ramakrishnan, J. reversed the judgment of the Single Judge, holding that Rule 21 A of the Sales Tax Rules was illegal and ultra vires and the respondent was not liable to pay the sales tax due from his predecessor in title, Purushottam Raju.
We accordingly reject the argument of the appellants on this aspect of the case and hold that Rule 21 A is ultra vires of the rule making power of the State Government under the, Act.
R.K.P.S. Appeal dismissed.
The trans feree shall also be liable to pay tax under the Act on the sales of goods effected by him with effect from the date of such transfer and shall within thirty days of the transfer apply for registration or licence, as the case may be, unless he already holds a certificate of registration or licence, as the case may be.
The liability is definitely created by sections 3 and 4 of the Income tax Act which are the charging sections and the assessment order under section 23 only quantifies the liability which has already been definitely and finally created by the charging sections and the provision in regard to assessment relates only to the machinery of taxation.
This appeal is brought, by special leave, from the judgment of the Division Bench of the Madras High Court dated September 13, 1963 in Writ Appeal No. 10 of 1962.
It was then submitted by Mr. Ram Reddy that Rule 21 A may be supported by the language of section 10(1) of the Act which states "10.
For these reasons we hold that the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court dated September 13, 1963 is correct and this appeal must be dismissed with costs.
The respondent appealed to the Commercial Tax Officer as well as to the Board of Revenue, but the appeals were dismissed.
But there is no such provision in the Act for the period with which we are concerned in the present case.
We consider that, in the context and background of other sections of the Act, the word 'assessment ' used in section 19(2)(c) does not include the power of recovering tax assessed from a person other than the assessee.
To put it differently, it is not open to the State Government to rely on the instrument inter vivos between the transferor and the transferee and to contend that there is any contractual obligation between the transferee and the State Government who is not a party to the instrument.
Section 19(1) of the Act empowers the State Government to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Act, but the section cannot be utilised to enlarge the scope of section 10 regarding recovery and payment of tax from some other person other than a "dealer" under the Act.
It is manifest that a person who purchases a business as a 'dealer ' can be assessed to sales tax only in respect of his turnover and under the scheme of the charging provision of the Act the purchaser of the business has nothing to do with the sales effected by the seller of the business.
The 3rd Amendment Act, 1956 received the assent of the President on October 1, 1956 but it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8. 1956.
Payment and recovery of tax. (1) The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments, if any, and within such time, as may be specified in the notice of assessment, not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.
P. Ram Reddy and A. V. Rangam, for the appellant.
