We are unable to agree with this submission.
Rule 3(c) has to be similarly read.
It shall be competent to a panchayat to levy all or any of the following taxes and, fees at such rates as may be decided by it (but subject to the minimum and maximum rates which may be fixed by the State Government) and in such manner and subject to such exemptions as may be prescribed, namely: . . . . . . . . . (ii) octroi. . . " Section 124(5) provides for appeals in these terms: "Any person aggrieved by the assessment, levy or imposition of any tax or fee may appeal to the Panchayat Samiti.
The Collector may in particular cases enlarge the octroi limits or reduce the octroi limits and it would lead to great confusion if either of the things happens after the Panchayat had been collecting octroi duty within the octroi limits submitted by it to collector for approval.
Rule 93 which deals with fee on cartstands and tonga stands makes the procedure in rr.3 and 4 appli cable.
We are concerned with Part ITT.
The High Court held that the Panchayat Samiti could not dismiss the appeal of the Company as being barred by limitation because r. 5 of the Fees Rules was ultra vires the powers of the rule making authority.
Every panchayat before deciding to levy a tax or fee shall observe the following procedure, namely: (a) The Panchayat shall, by resolution passed at its meeting, select a tax or fee which it proposes to levy and in such resolution shall specify the rate at which it is to be levied.
The tax or fee shall accordingly be levied from.
The matter of levying octroi duty shall be undertaken in accordance with the Panchayat Act and its rules.
Section 3(13) of the Bombay Village Panchayat Act, 1958 (Bombay Act III of 1959) defines "octroi" or "octroi duty" to mean "a tax on the 'entry of goods into a village 217 for consumption, use or sale therein".
The inhabitants of the village would be entitled to object only to these two matters, namely, (1) the tax or fee imposed and the rate at which it is levied.
This levy should come into fo rce from 1 4 1963 and its final publication be done on 1 3 1963 as per rules and by public notice and by announcement by beat of drums (through loudspeakers.)" On March 17, 1963, resolution No. 3 was passed fixing octroi limits and number of octroi nakas and their places.
Thereupon, the Panchayat, as already stated, filed an application under article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court.
Similarly, r.37 which deals with tax on pilgrims provides that the procedure prescribed in rr.3 and 4 should be followed.
Under r.3(d) what the panchayat does is to consider objections and suggestions and then finally make the choice as regards two things, i.e., the tax or fee to be imposed and the rate at which it is to be levied.
While the appeal was pending, the Tehsildar Ramtek on January 14, 1964, approved the octroi limits and the number and location of octroi nakas within the limits of the jurisdiction of the Panchayat under r. 21 of the Fees Rules.
It appears that the Panchayat started collecting octroi from April 1, 1963.
