Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21, 1954, long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
The consequence was that even if the tenant had lost possession but any proceeding even arising from an execution proceeding was pending, the provisions of the Act would be attracted.
He was however not to be bound he could not have done because of the passing of the Act after the filing of his suit.
The definition of a thika tenant was modified slightly but the change affected thereby need not be taken account of because the respondent Gaffur 's position was not improved thereby.
The only qualification was that even if the suit had been filed before the Act but was riot disposed of by that date, the landlord had to establish that be was entitled to possession because of the existence of any of the grounds mentioned in section 3.
(1) of section 5 made the Act, as amended by the Ordinance, applicable to all cases pending before a court or a controller.
Most of the Rent Control Acts all over India contain similar provisions and courts have always held such provisions applicable to pending proceedings.
Section 28 was meant to give relief to a thika tenant in a case where a decree or order for recovery of possession of any holding from a thika tenant had been made before the date of commencement of the Act.
No exception was made under section 29 to cases where possession of the holding had been recovered from the thika tenant.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May, 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
Sub section
The language of section 5 being closely similar to that used in section 4 that section should also be held to be prospective only.
For reasons we cannot speculate upon, the legislature limited the applicability of the Act only to suits and appeals pending on 21st October 1952 and not in February, 1949 i.e. the date of the commencement of the Act of 1949.
Sub section
This was decided in terms of the Gaming Act, 1845, section 18 of which enacted that " no suit shall be brought or maintained for recovering any such sum of money " and the question was whether that enactment was retrospective so as to defeat an action already commenced.
Whereas before the enactment of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act, 1949 it was not necessary for the landlord either to allege any of the grounds specified in section 3 or to prove the existence thereof at the hearing of the suit, he had to establish the existence of such a ground when the suit was heard.
Under section 27 any person aggrieved by an order of the Controller might present an appeal in writing either to the Chief Judge of the Court of Small Causes in the Presidency town or to 175 the District Judge of a district in which the holding was situate.
(1) of this section which enatced that "Save as provided in sub section (2), the provisions of the said Act as amended by this Ordinance, shall apply to all cases pending before a Court or Controller on the date of the commencement of this Ordinance".
