In Ranga Mahammad 's case(2), the point that arose for decision was as to who was the authority to transfer a district judge.
It was not the case of the contesting respondents that Shri P.C. Dey, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri B.K. Patro had not the necessary qualifications to hold the posts they were holding.
Those posts are similar to.
The order of the High Court consists of two parts, namely, (1) holding that Shri B.K. Patro, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri P.C. Dey had no authority to act as law secretary, superintendent and legal remembrancer and member sales tax tribunal, respectively, on and after October 10, 1966, and (2) commanding the State of Orissa, the Chief Secretary to the government of Orissa, the Home Secretary to the government of Orissa, Shri P.C. Dey, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri Patro to implement the transfers ordered by the High Court on October 10, 1966.
It was conceded that if those posts had not been included in the cadre of superior judicial service the High Court would not have had any right to fill those posts.
It is true that in the course of the judgment.
Hence in the case of Shri P.C. Dey it must be assumed that his services were placed by the High Court at the disposal of the government for being posted as member sales tax tribunal.
That was the single question decided in that case.
In the course of that judgment, this Court observed (at page 459 of the report): "The question we have posed resolves itself into a question of a very different but somewhat limited form.
Under the Government of India Act 1935, the power to transfer a district judge from one post to another was that of the Governor though that power was always exercised in consultation with the High Court and by and large on the recommendation of the High Court.
district and sessions judges but also officers holding other posts.
In these circumstances we fail to see how the High Court could have held that they had no authority to hold the posts in question.
As mentioned earlier, member, sales tax tribunal, was an ex cadre post.
Hence that part of the High Court 's order is unassailable.
He must depend on his department for information.
If there is no such agreement it is open to the government to send him back to his parent department at any time it pleases.
R.K.P.S. Appeals allowed in part.
It consists of eight district and sessions judges, two additional district and sessions judges, secretary to government in law department, superintendent and legal remembrancer, law department, deputy secretary to government in the law department, member administrative tribunal and the Registrar of the Orissa High Court, in all 15 in number.
Soon after that decision was rendered and without any further dialogue with government in the ' light of that decision, the High Court took the precipitate step of transferring the aforementioned officers to other posts and in their place posted officers who were doing judicial work till then.
The High Court insisted that ordinarily judicial officers should: not hold those posts for more than three years.
It was also not disputed that they had been validly appointed to those posts.
But it was beyond the powers of the High Court to post Shri K.B. Panda as the law secretary, Shri T. Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri P.K. Mohanti as the deputy law secretary.
(e) Shri P.K. Mohanti, district and sessions judge, Bolangir Kalahandi, as deputy secretary to the law department, a post which was vacant then, and (f) Shri P.C. Dey, member sales tax tribunal, as district and sessions judge, Bolangir Kalahandi.
this Court observed that the High Court is made the sole custodian of the control of the judiciary, but that observation was made only in the context of the question that arose for decision.
If the sense of the matter be the former, then the High Court and if the latter, the Governor, would possess that 'power.
Before going into the validity of the orders of transfer relating to the other officers, it is necessary to ascertain the law bearing on the subject.
In that case, the State government ordered the transfer of certain district judges without even consulting the High Court.
163 be quoted for a proposition that may seem to follow logically from it.
5 to 7 (in C.As.
In every one of those petitions, rule nisi was issued.
Therefore, these appeals were filed after obtaining special leave from this Court.
I entirely deny that it can (1) ; (2) [1901] A.C. 495.
That part of the High Court 's order is clearly unsustainable.
It must be presumed that they were taken over by the government with the consent of the High Court.
A decision is only an authority for what it actually decides.
, N.M. Patnaik and Vinoo Bhagar, for respondents Nos.
