It does not, either in terms or by necessary implication, discriminate as between persons or classes of persons; nor does it purport to deny to any one equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws.
Some of these Articles are confined to citizens only and some can be availed of by non citizens also; but on reading these provisions as a whole, one can see the great importance attached to the principle of equality in the Constitution.
I find it difficult however, to hold that the difference in the procedure that has been introduced by the West Bengal Special Courts Act is of a minor or unsubstan tial character which has not prejudiced the interests of the accused.
Amongst other important changes, reference may be made to the provision of section 13 of the Act which empowers the Special Court to convict an accused of any offence if the commission of such offence is proved during trial, although he was not charged with the same or could be charged with it in the manner contemplated by section 236 of the Criminal Procedure Code, nor was it a minor offence within the meaning of section 238 of the Code.
In a sessions case, on the other hand, the trial is actually before another Judge, who was not connected with the earlier proceeding.
It matters not how lofty and laudable the motives are.
Under section a50 of the Criminal Procedure Code, when a case after being heard in part goes for disposal before another Magistrate, the accused has the right to demand, before the second Magistrate commences the proceedings, that the witnesses already examined should be re examined and re heard.
I cannot share the view of Das Gupta J. that the expediency of speedier trial is "too vague and indefinite" to be the basis of a "well de fined" classification.
delivered separate judgments agreeing with the conclusion of the Chief Justice, Das Gupta J,, however, going further and holding that section 5 (1) was unconstitutional in its entirety inasmuch as "the clas sification sought to be made on the expediency of speedier trial is not a well defined classification.
In the course of the arguments, it was suggested that the Act is open to criticism on two different and distinct grounds, these being , (1) that it involves excessive delegation of legislative authority amounting to its abdication in so far as it gives unfettered discretion to the executive, without laying down any standards or rules of guidance, to make use of the procedure laid down by it; and (2) that it infringes article 14 of the Constitution.
By admitting only their relatives and friends (1) ; (4) ; (2) ; (5) ; , (3) 297 to apprenticeship, the members of the board made it impossi ble, with occasional exceptions, for others to be appointed as State pilots.
In ray judgment, the High Court was right in quashing the conviction 347 of the respondents in the one case and in prohibiting fur ther proceedings in the other case and these appeals should be dismissed.
Democracy im plies respect for the elementary rights of man, however suspect or unworthy.
The facts of the case and the argument of Counsel appear fully in the judgment.
To a certain extent the remedies to which an accused person is entitled for redress in the higher courts have been cut down.
FAZL ALl J.
Section 5 (1) of the Act runs as follows": " A Special Court shall try such offences or classes of offences or cases or classes of cases, as the State Government may, by general or special order in writing, direct".
In order to pass the test, two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (1) that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes those that are grouped together from others (1) ; (2) ; 335 and (2) that that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act.
When the froth and the foam of discussion is cleared away and learned dialectics placed on one side, we reach at last the human element which to my mind is the most important of all.
The short question that arises for consideration in these cases is whether the whole, or any portion of the West Bengal Special Courts Act, X of 1950, is invalid as being opposed to equality before the law and the equal protection of the laws guaran teed under article 14 of the Constitution of India.
In order to appreciate the points that have been can vassed before us, it would be convenient first of all 320 to refer to the provision of article 14 of the Constitution with a view to determine the nature and scope of the guaran tee that is implied in it.
All that the court is expected to see, in dealing with equal protection claims, is whether the law impugned is "palpably discriminatory", and, in considering such a question great weight ought to be at tached to the fact that a majority of the elected represen tatives of the people who made the law did not think so, though that is not, of course, conclusive.
" These decisions seem, to my mind, to reveal a change of approach marked by an increasing respect for the State 's regulatory power in dealing with equal protection claims and underline the futility of wordy formulation of so called "tests" in solving problems presented by concrete cases.
I can conceive of cases where there is the utmost good faith and where the classification is scientific and ration al and yet which would offend this law.
The position, therefore, is that when the statute is not itself discrimi natory and the charge of violation of equal protection is only against the official, who is entrusted with the duty of carrying it into operation, the equal protection clause could be availed of in such cases; but the officer would have a good defence if he could prove bona fides.
This is not a reasonable classification at all but an arbitrary selection.
Mere classification, however, is not enough to get over the inhibition of the Article. 'The classification must not be arbitrary but must be rational, that is to say, it must not only be based on some quali ties or characteristics which are to be found in all the persons grouped together and not in others who are left out but those qualities or characteristics must have a reasonable relation to the object of the legislation.
This Court has never attempted that impossible task.
I agree in the conclusion reached by my learned brothers that the appeals should be dismissed and I propose to indicate my views as shortly as possible on a few only of the points raised and discussed.
Thus, we have before us an enactment which does not make any reasonable classification and which confers on the executive an uncontrolled and unguided power of discrimination.
It may even be that it would be more truly done.
Distinctions have to be made for different classes and groups of persons and a rational or reasonable classification is permitted, as otherwise it would be almost impossible to carry on the work of Govern ment of any State or country.
In Anwar Ali 's case itself, there were 49 other accused.
discrimination is alleged against officials in carrying 325 out the law, a question of intention may be material in ascertaining whether the officer acted mala fide or not(1); but no question of intention can arise when discrimination follows or arises on the express terms of the law itself.
To accept this position would be to neutralize, if not to abrogate altogether, article 14.
The different sec tions of the Act have been analysed and the important dif ferences have been clearly indicated by the learned Chief Justice of West Bengal and need not be repeated in detail.
The Act indicates no basis whatsoever on which such classification should be made.
Almost every piece of legislation has got a public purpose in view and is generally intended, or said to be intended, to promote the general progress of the country and the better administration of Government. ' The intention behind the legislation may be unexceptionable and the object sought to be achieved may be praiseworthy but the question which falls to be considered under article 14 is whether the legislation is discriminatory in its nature, and this has to be determined not so much by its purpose or objects but by its effects.
On the other hand, the facts appearing on the record would seem to justify the reference of the case to the special court for trial.
(3) Article 14 is as widely worded as, if not more widely worded than, its counterpart in the American Consti tution, and is bound to lead to some inconvenient results and seriously affect some pre Constitution laws.
As pointed out by Chakravartti J. (1) ; (2) 321 U.S. I. 305 "The notification by which the case of Anwar Ali Sirkar (the respondent herein) was directed to be tried by the special court did not relate merely to that case but covered five more cases in each of which the accused were several in number.
It does not prohibit legislation, which is limited either in the objects to which it is directed or by the territory within which it is to operate.
A line is drawn artificially between two classes of cases.
On that short and simple ground I would decide this case and hold the Act bad.
" It has not, however, been urged before us that the addition of these extra words has made any substantial difference in its practical application.
The law of the Constitution is not only for those who govern or for the theorist, but also for the bulk of the people, for the common man for whose benefit and pride and safeguard the Constitution has also been written.
concurred, applied the test of what may be called "reasonable classification" and held that, although the need for a speedier trial than what is possible under the procedure prescribed 291 by the Code of Criminal Procedure might form the basis of a reasonable classification and section 5 (1) could not be regarded as discriminatory in so far as it authorises the State Government to direct that certain offences or classes of offences or classes of cases should be tried by a special court, the provision was discriminatory and violative of article 14 of the Constitution in so far as it purported to vest in the State Government an absolute and arbitrary power to refer to a special court for trial "any cases ", which must include an individual case, "whether the duration of such a case is likely to be long or not ".
It is well settled that equality before the law or the equal protection of laws does not mean identity or abstract symmetry of treatment.
But I am not here to consider that.
(2) ; (4) ; 566, 567, 568.
