If a person bona fide comes to the conclusion on the material placed before him that the source of information is not authentic he cannot be held guilty of contempt of court for disobeying the order.
The only material before them was the application dated December 25, 1963, which was not supported by any affidavit sworn to before a person authorised to (1) [1962] Supp. 3 S.C.R. 127,138.
The statements of the complainant and his witnesses, Bhabhuti and Damri, are recorded.
It is true that in certain cases proceedings can be adjourned to enable the parties to file better proof, but a judicial officer is not bound to do so and, if he bona fide does not in his discretion adjourn proceedings, it cannot be said that he has committed contempt of court.
On December 23, 1963, Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R. Singh, S.D.M., Deoria, alleging that "writ petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.
that it has not been sworn to before any person authorised to administer oaths.
The High Court held : "There was no reasonable ground for the Panchas to have doubted the averments made in the application and affidavit of Mahabir that the High Court had stayed further proceedings before the Panchayat, nor is there any thing in the order sheet to show that the Panchas did not believe the contents of the application, and affidavit of Mahabir.
Phagu Prasad.
However, if they wanted to ascertain the matter, they should have at best stayed the proceedings for a short while and should have asked the applicant to produce a certified copy of the stay order.
It happened that the S.D.M. was absent on December 23, 1963, and papers were put up before Shri section K. Srivas tava, Additional Sub Divisional Magistrate, who issued the order "Put up with records".
Contempt of court is a serious matter and a High Court should be chary of finding a judicial officer guilty of contempt of court for disobeying its orders unless there is unimpeachable evidence that the judicial officer had knowledge of the order of the High Court.
, the Nyaya Panchayats proceeded with the case.
The relevant facts are these.
" We looked at this so called affidavit and found.
Appeal by special leave from the jurisdiction and order dated April 29, 1965 of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Misc. 'Contempt Case No. 43 of 1965.
In the alternative, they should have verified from the Sub Divi sional Magistrate whether Mahabir had really filed an application and affidavit before him along with the original telegram received from his counsel at Allahabad saying that the High Court had already stayed the proceedings before the Nyaya Panchayat.
" This order was signed by three Panchas, Phagu Parsad, Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.
