in the Company must be fixed at the average level of 'wages in the other comparable industries in the region.
It was also urged that, in fixing the minimum wage, the wages payable in the paper industry in other.
According to him, note should be taken of the fact that, at least . in the paper industry in this.
that the bonus is worked out on the basis of the total wages paid.
In the majority of the industries, which are being compared with the Company in the region, consequently, the minimum wage is the total wage packet receivable by the workman and there is no extra amount received as production bonus.
On the face of it, at the time of the reference, there could be no question of applying the Full Bench Formula for calculation of surplus, because there were no completed accounts for the two years 1962 63 and 1963 64.
Learned counsel appearing for the Company drew our attention to the fact that the revised wages are payable with effect from 13th December, 1962 and, by this time, a period of 5 to 6 years has elapsed, so that the Company will have to pay arrears of wages for this long period.
The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co. Limited.
The nature of work is such that the total number of workmen employed does not exceed 125 which is a very small number as compared ' with the number of workmen employed by the Company.
" The Tribunal, in giving its decision, kept this principle in view, but came to the finding of fact that there were no other concerns in the same line of business as the Company in the region which could be compared with the Company.
The Tribunal rejected this demand on the ground that, under the Agreement of 1959, the workmen and the Company had agreed specifically to exclude these classes of workers in regard to payment of bonus.
The Tribunal was, therefore, quite correct in not trying to work out the surplus according to the Full Bench Formula and in awarding bonus on that basis.
The reference was ultimately made by the Government under section 10(1) of the Act, but it was made in the same form in which the parties had agreed to.
The argument is incorrect.
" On the basis of this finding of fact, the Tribunal held that, if the minimum wage in the Company is to be fixed more on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region which, in its opinion, would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case, then, a revision was really necessary.
There is only an exception in the case of Indian Aluminium Company.
He has stated that the Alumihium Factory at Hirakud carries on its work with the help of highly automatic machines and is ' supplied electricity by the Government at subsidised rates.
From the facts noted in the Award or appearing on the record, it appears that production bonus, in addition to the minimum wage, is payable in the case of Aluminium Company, Hirakud; but there does not appear to be any, production bonus payable in the three Collieties, in the Steel Plant and in the Cement Factory.
671 Brajrajnagar, the minimum wage is above Rs. 90 in almost all the cases.
Having come to this view, it is clear that, to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co.(1), the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
The Tribunal, in its award, held that the minimum wage in so far as it consists of basic wage and dearness allowance,, should be fixed at Rs. 73 and there should be paid, in addition, production bonus to the extent of Rs. 11 in each case.
This circumstance makes it clear that the claim for higher bonus could not, at the time of reference, have been based on the availability of surplus according to the Full Bench Formula.
It was urged that this would cast a very heavy burden on the Company.
The first matter related to fixation of wages, including minimum wages, and this was covered by items Nos. 1, 3, 4, 22 and 26 in the Schedule attached to the Order of Reference.
673 We may, at this stage, take notice of the fact that, in con sidering the question of minimum wage, the Tribunal had in view the total wage packet to be received by each workman and, in the opinion of the Tribunal, it consisted of three elements.
Even the profits earned were much smaller.
In this connection, learned counsel for the workmen urged that, at least by the time when the Award was given, the completed accounts for the year 1962 63 were available; but it seems to us that this circumstance is of no assistance.
Further, the Tribunal was expected to decide the dispute only as referred to it and, at the time of reference at least, there was not and there could possibly not be a claim for higher bonus on the basis of the application of the Full Bench Formula.
In fact, the reference included a dispute even for the year 1963 64 which year had not even started running.
The second matter in the appeal related to bonus covered by item No. 2 of that Schedule.
The previous agreement of 1959 was binding only up to 12th December, 1962 and we think that the Tribunal 213 Sup.
necessary that the minimum wage.
So far as annual profit bonus is concerned, it is payable in the Company also as in those other concerns.
In fact, the Tribunal also accepted them as being comparable 'and that is why, in its conclusion, the Tribunal held that, in its opinion, it would be appropriate under the circumstances of the case to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the minimum wage prevailing in other industries in that region.
That reference under section 10(2) of the Act, however, failed due to some technical defect.
The claim was, in fact, based on the circumstances that, according to the workmen, the bonus in their case was being calculated as equivalent to three months ' basic wages, while, the case of some clerical staff, the calculation was made on the basis of their consolidated wages consisting of basic wages and dearness allowance.
On their basis, it appears to us that there will be full justification for fixing the minimum wage in the Company at Rs. 95 per mensum which is about the average of the wages prevailing in all those concerns.
