That is the only purpose of the enquiry held by competent officer and the report he makes as a result of the said enquiry".
He would claim on a quantum mersuit and I am fortified in this view by Reilly vs R. (2), by R. vs Doultre(4) and by Bushe vs R(5) referred to in Robertson 's book at p, 338." (1)[1956] 1 All E.R. 807, 811 12.
Moreover, as pointed out by the High Court, the Inspector General of Prisons had the report before him and the tentative conclusions arrived at by the Enquiry Officer were bound to influence him, and in depriving the plaintiff of a copy of the report he was handicapped is not knowing what material was influencing the Inspector General of Prisons.
On March 7, 1954, he was served with a charge sheet.
Authority is not lacking even in England where a special relationship exists between the Crown and its public servants.
The Gondal State merged with the United States of Saurashtra.
Before we deal with the above points we may give a few facts.
It seems to us that the decree of the High Court decreeing payment of arrears of salary is truly a liability in proceedings relating to a contract within section 60(2)(a) of the Act.
(2) For the purposes of this section there shall be deemed to be included in the liabilities which have accrued or may accrue under any contract (a)any liability to satisfy an order or award made by any court or other tribunal in proceedings relating to the contract; and (b any liability in respect of expenses incurred in or in connection with any such proceedings.
P. K. Chatterjee and section P. Nayar, for the appellant.
Hambrook(1) observed : "If I may be bold enough to express a conclusion on a matter on which the Judicial Committee hesitated in Reilly vs R (2) , it is that an established civil servant is appointed to an office and is a public officer, remune rated by moneys provided by Parliament, so that his employment depends not on a contract with the Crown but on appointment by the Crown, though there may be as indicated in Reilly vs R. (2) exceptional cases, as for instance an engagement for a definite period where there is a contractual element in or collateral to his employment." But in the Court of Appeal nothing was said about these observations.
In substance the charges were that while he was serving at Surendranagar he had committed certain acts of mis appropriation of food stuffs meant for prisoners, maltreatment of prisoners and acceptance of illegal gratification from them.
We are here concerned with sections 60 and 61 of the Bombay Reorganisation 1960, which read thus : "60.
I. N. Shroff, for respondent No. 1.
It seems to us, however, that some elements of relationship between a public servant and Government are based on contract within the meaning of section 60 of the Bombay Reorganisation Act, 1960.
921 As observed by Gajendragadkar, J., as he then was, in Union of lndia vs H. C. Goel(1), "the enquiry report along with the evidence recorded constitute the material on which the Government has ultimately to act.
He was also allowed to appear through an Advocate in the enquiry proceedings.
On March 6, 1953, the plaintiff was appointed senior jailor, Surendranagar District Jail.
(3) [1953] 2Q.B.482,499.
This Court in State of Bihar vs Abdul Majid(1) held "that the rule of English Law that a civil servant cannot maintain a suit against the Crown for the recovery of arrears of salary does not prevail in India and it has been negatived by the provisions of the statute law in India".
