The order of the Court was delivered by] Shah, J.
A bad and doubtful debt due to the taxpayer, written off as irrecoverable in the books of account was properly allowable in computing the taxable profits from business, profession or vocation, where accounts were not kept on the cash basis, if the debt was in respect of a loan made in the course of the taxpayer 's business as a banker or money lender, or when the taxpayer was carrying on any other business the debt was in respect of that other business.
We, therefore, direct that the Income tax Appellate Tribunal do submit a supplementary statement of the case on the, question reframed, on both the branches of section 10(2)(xi) of the Indian Income tax Act, 1922.
The Tribunal 's order is very brief : it gives no reasons in support of the conclusions.
But the Tribunal has not raised any inference from these circumstances and has merely observed that charging of interest cannot make it a money lending account.
" 423 It is true as contended by the learned Counsel for the asstssee that the conclusions reached by the tribunal are not supported by proper discussion of the material before it.
The tribunal accordingly submitted a fresh statement of the case on the question referred.
The assessee firm then applied to the Tribunal to refer the following question to the High Court of Madras "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the disallowance of the bad debt of Rs. 2,68,385 is right in law ?" The Tribunal rejected the application, but pursuant to an order made by the High Court of, Madras under section 66(2) submitted a statement of the case on the following question "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in law in holding that the debt of Rs. 2,68,385/ was not one incurred in the course of money lending business of the assessee ?" In the opinion of the High Court the debt of Rs. 2,68,385/ due to the appellants was not a bad and doubtful debt in its money lending business not a debt representing loss sustained in the other business.
It is also true that the tribunal after catalogueing the arguments advanced at the bar, has come to certain abrupt conclusions, but all the tame it cannot be denied that the findings reached by the tribunal are findings of fact and those findings are supported by the evidence on record.
