The official assignee declined to proceed with the suit, and the suit was dismissed by the trial court.
The expression "final order" it has been held by a long course of authorities, occurring in section 205 of the Government of India Act, 1935, section 109 of the Code of Civil Procedure and article 133(1) of the Constitution means a final decision on the rights of the parties in dispute in a suit or proceeding; if the rights of the parties in dispute in the suit or proceeding remain to be tried, after the order, the order is not final.
The proceeding for filing a complaint under section 476 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was a self contained proceeding and was finally disposed of by the order directing the filing of a complain under section 205 read with section 114 I.P. Code.
Kuppusami Rao vs The King(2) The Federal Court held that the expression "final order" in section 205 (1 ) of the Government of India Act, 1935, means an order which finally determines the points in dispute and brings the case to an end.
In Sardar Syedna Taher Saifuddin Saheb vs The State of Bombay(4) a suit was filed for a declaration that the order of ex (1) L.R. 60LA.
Certificate was there (1) 13 C.L.J. 681.
It was thereafter for the court trying the complaint to decide whether the offence complained of was committed by the appellant.
In the present case not even an issue has been decided, and it is not contended that the order of the High Court amounts to a judgment or 'a decree.
M.K. Ramamurthi, Shyamala Pappu and Vineet Kumar, for respondent No. 1.
The Court in that case expressly approved of the earlier view at p. 736 where after referring to Kuppusami Rao 's case(1) observed: Syedna Taher Saifuddin Saheb 's case(") observed: " . these were cases where the impugned orders were passed in appeals or revisions and since an appeal or a revision in continuation of the original suit or proceeding the test applied was whether the order disposed of the original suit or proceeding.
Against the order deciding the issue, an appeal was preferred to this Court with certificate granted by the High Court under article 132 and article 133 of the Constitution, and it was held that the appeal was not maintainable since the decision on the issue did not finally dispose of the dispute between the parties.
