committed.
The presumption is stronger when the discovery of the fruits of crime is made immediately after the crime is.
Thereafter six carts left for Mudgal at about 10 p.m.
The evidence strengthens the other evidence already against him.
It all depends upon the circumstances under which the discovery of the fruits of crime are made with a particular accused.
In these searches cloth which was undoubtedly stolen at the time of the dacoity was found in their houses.
It has been stated on more than one occasion that if the gap of time is, too large, the presumption that the accused was concerned with the crime itself gets weakened.
, These are 14 appellants who appeal against their conviction under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentences of 5 years ' rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs. 1,000/ passed on them.
The police investigated the case and arrested the 20 persons who were accused in the case as being the culprits involved in this incident.
The sentence of fine will stand.
But no injury beyond one appears to have been caused.
In what circumstances the one presumption or the other may be drawn, it is not necessary to state categorically in this case.
29 of 1965.
These goods were not sold and were being taken back to the dealers by the cartmen.) A large number of persons said to be 20 in number pelted stones at the cartmen and looted the, property.
The reason is obvious.
14 alone have appealed to this Court.
Originally 20 persons were tried and convicted for the same offence and received a like sentence.
It is legitimate therefore to raise the presumption in this case that the persons with whom the goods were found were the dacoits themselves.
They need not be stated here for they differ from case to case.(In the present case, the goods stolen were a large quantity of cloth taken for sale to the market.
As regards the sentence, the offence no doubt was serious.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Hidayatullah, C.J.
Disposal of the fruits of crime requires the finding of a person ready to receive them and the shortness of time, the nature of the property which is disposed of, that is to say, its quantity and its character determine whether the person who had the goods in his possession received them from another or was himself the thief or the dacoit.
Therefore we think that a sentence of three years ' rigorous imprisonment will meet the ends of justice in this case.
The sentence is reduced to three years ' rigorous imprisonment.
In our opinion, the law advocated by Mr. Chari is not correct.
We are, therefore, satisfied that the proper inference was drawn in this case.
