It is done in the interest of trade and business of the country.
posed the question for decision thus : "In our view the linch pin of the definition of 'industry ' is to ascertain the systematic activity which the organization is discharging namely, whether it partakes the nature of a business or trade; or is an undertaking or manufacture or calling of employers".
As regards the preliminary objection, it is true that before the High Court, it was not argued that the activity of the Federation amounts to the carrying on of any business or trade in the premises in question.
There could be no doubt that the Federation was an industry within the meaning of s.2(j) of the Act." (The crucial words are those that have been underlined).
It is pointed out that it was wrongly assumed in Mittal 's case (supra) that the Federation, was systematically assisting not only its members but also other business men and industrialists even if they were not its members.
P.P. Rao and R. N. Sachthey, for the appellants.
therein, the Memorandum of Association, Articles of Association and the other material placed before the court were closely examined.
This contention was also rejected with the observation that since the earlier part of the definition refers to "some particular business or trade carried on in a premises" the words "any work in connection with or incidental or necessary thereto" obviously refer to such particular business or trade and not to trade or business in general '.
We therefore do not think that R. K. Mittal 's case (supra) was incorrectly decided and needs reconsideration.
(1) To secure the interests and well being of the Indian business communities abroad.
For the application of the Act to the Federation, it is immaterial whether its activities bring its premises within the ambit of a "shop" or a "commercial establishment '.
Mr. Pai, learned Counsel for the Federation has firstly raised a preliminary objection that before the High Court, at no stage, it was urged on behalf of the Appellants that the activity of the Federation carried on in the premises was a business or trade.
" 352 It was then contended that the activities of the Federation carried on in the premises in question amounted to "work in connection with, or incidental or ancillary" to trade or business in general within the latter part of the definition of "commercial establishment".
Any premises where services are rendered to customers fall within the definition of a "shop".
A certificate, however, was granted under Article 133(1) (c) of the Constitution that the case was fit for appeal to this Court.
The 1st petitioner is not tendering any advice or giving any assistance to any trader in particular.
It is added that a half hearted argument was adVanced that its activity was a 'profession ' and that, too, was soon given UP In these circumstances, it is submitted, the appellants should not be allowed to commit a volte face and take up in this Court a stand which was either not taken or was given no in the High Court.
(c) To secure organised action on all subjects mentioned above.
(m) To help in the Organisation of Chambers of Commerce or Commercial Associations in different commercial centres of the country.
We, therefore, overrule the preliminary objection.
Of course, that profit is ploughed back for the purposes of the Federation as set out in its Memorandum of Association, and is not distributed among its members.
G.P. Pai, P. C. Bhartari and O. C. Mathur, for respondents nos.
