It was, however, contended on behalf of the respondent that there was no devolution of the interest in the subject matter of the suit on the death of Som Dass, since there was no certainty as to the person who would be elected as mahant to succeed him.
In such a case the successor to the head of the mutt or to the manager of the temple may be substituted as a party under this rule.
488 N. N. Goswamy and Arvind Minocha, for the appellant.
The appellant had raised an alternative contention before the High Court that there was no abatement of the appeal even if Som Dass was not impleaded within the period prescribed as he claimed to represent the dera as its duly elected Chela.
The subject matter of the suit was the interest of Som Dass in the Dera and its properties and it devolved upon shiam Dass by virtue of his election as mahant subsequent to the death of Som Dass.
We see no force in this argument.
(2) The attachment of a decree pending an appeal there from shall be deemed to be an interest entitling the person who procured such attachment to the benefit of sub rule (1).
Thereafter the appellant prayed before the High Court that his application dated 1 2 1971 might be treated as an application for setting aside the abatement of the appeal and the ground for setting aside the abatement was that the appellant did not know about the death of Som Dass at the time he died.
While the appeal was pending in the High Court, Som Dass, the defendant, died on 13 10 1970.
As already stated the contention of the defendant was that though the properties belonged to the Dera, he was its lawfully appointed mahant and that the appellant had no right to recover possession of the property of the Dera.
The suit was filed on the basis that the appellant as the lawfully appointed mahant was entitled to manage the properties of the Dera at Landeke, that the defendant was unlawfully claiming to be the mahant of the Dera and entitled to manage the properties of the Dera, and that the appellant was entitled to be in possession of the properties.
The prayer in the plaint was for recovery of possession of the Dera and the properties attached to it.
Against that decree, an appeal was preferred by the appellant to the High Court.
In the result we reverse the decree of the court below and direct the High Court to dispose of the appeal on merits.
The fact that it was after Som Dass died that Shiam Dass was elected to be the mahant of the Dera can make no difference when we are dealing with the question whether the interest in the subject matter of the suit devolved upon him.
When Som Dass died, the interest which was the subject matter of the suit, devolved upon Shiam Das as he was elected to be the Mahant of the Dera and the appeal could be continued under Q. 22, r. 10, of the Civil Procedure Code against the person upon whom the interest had devolved.
