As has been stated, the Act came into force in the region concerned on December 14, 1969, and it has not been disputed before us that till then it was the practice in the glass industries to grant sick leave with wages for periods varying from 6 to 10 days.
of the learned counsel for the parties, and will be disposed by a common judgment.
Appeal No. 1951 of 1975 is directed against the award of the Industrial Tribunal Gujarat, dated September 24, 1975, in the dispute between the Alembic Glass Industries Ltd., Baroda, and its workmen, while appeal No. 631 of 1976 arises out of the Tribunal 's award in the dispute between Jyoti Limited, Baroda, and its workmen.
Speaking broadly, the dispute in both cases related to the workmen 's demand for 10 days sick leave, with retrospective effect, and ,its accumulation over a period of three years i.e. upto 30 days.
It appears to us clear however that in providing for periodical payments to an insured worker in case of sickness (sickness benefit) or for medical treatment or attendance to him or the members of his family, the legislature did not intend to substitute any of these benefits for the workmen 's right to get leave on full pay on the ground of sickness.
Section 56 of the Act pro vides for medical benefits to the insured workmen or in certain cases to the members of his family.
The workmen particularly felt aggrieved because by virtue of the first proviso to section 49 of the , hereinafter referred to as the Act, they were not entitled to the sickness benefit for the first two days of sickness except in the case of a, spell of sickness following, at an interval of not more than 15 days, the spell of sickness for which sickness benefit was last paid.
That was obviously under a mistaken impression of the sickness benefit which the Act allowed for, as has been shown, it does not deal with all aspects of the demand for sickness benefit and does not, at any rate, provide for the grant of leave on full emoluments during the period of the workman 's physical incapacity to earn his normal wages because of his sickness.
Learned coun sel for the appellants have invited our attention to the case between the Textile Labour Association and the Ahmeda bad Millowner 's Association where the demand for sick leave was refused but, as the Tribunal has pointed out, the demand there was for a month 's leave every year in addition to 15 days casual leave and pay in lieu of privilege leave.
It appears, however, that it was not necessary, in the circumstances of the case, to award the benefit of the sick leave with retro spective effect from January 1, 1975, in the case of Jyoti Ltd. Baroda.
The Full Bench of the Industrial Court in that case considered the paying capacity of the mills also, and held that the additional leave demanded by the workmen would be very much beyond the paying capacity of the industry.
(II) No. 158 of 1974 published in the Gujarat Govt.
We find that the Tribunal has examined this aspect of the controversy also, and we have no reason to disagree with the view which it has taken.
V.B. Patel, 1.
It has been argued by the learned counsel for the appel lants that as the benefits of sections 47 and 49 of the Act are already admissible to workmen in Baroda with effect from December 14, 1969, and they are quite adequate, the Tribunal committed an error 83 of law in granting the additional benefits mentioned above.
