Thus a Collector in the City of Bombay in recovering the certified amount of income tax must proceed under Ejection 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876 (Bombay Act II of 1876) and arrest and detain him far the period therein mentioned which, prior to the 8th October 1954, might have worked out to a period much longer than six months.
No application was made to the High Court for leave to appeal to this Court from the decision of that High Court but on the 2nd September 1955 the present petition was filed in this Court under article 32 of the Constitution for the relief hereinbefore mentioned.
The said Govindji Deoji Halai (hereinafter referred to as the "assessee") is the sole proprietor of a business carried on under the name and style of Indestro Sales and Service Co. at No. 50 52, Lohar Chawl Street in the City of Bombay.
In other words, it is section 46(2) which tells the Collectors of Madras to follow the procedure under section 48 of the Madras Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 as if those provisions are set out in the Indian Income tax Act in extenso and it tells the Collectors of all other States to adopt the procedure prescribed by their own State laws as if the provisions prescribing that procedure were set out in that section.
What is necessary is that there must be a nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act under consideration.
The assessee did not appear in person on the appointed day but on the next day, the 17th June 1955, an Advocate acting on behalf of the assessee wrote a letter to the Additional Collector purporting to show cause why the assessee should not be arrested and sent to the civil jail.
We do not, however, find it necessary to express any opinion on the extreme contention urged by the learned Attorney General, on the authority of that decision, that a mere territorial classification, by itself and without anything else, is enough to place the law beyond the operation of the equal protection clause.
The principal contentions urged by the learned Advocate appearing for the petitioner are as follows, namely, (a) that section 46(2) of the Indian Income tax Act under which the Income tax Officer issued the recovery certificate to the Additional Collector of Bombay is void under article 13(1) of the Constitution in that the same offends article 22(1) and (2), article 21 and article 14 of the Constitution; (b) that section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876 under which the warrant of arrest was issued by the Additional Collector is void under article 13 (1) of the Constitution as the same is repugnant to article 14 of the Constitution.
The assessee is said to have some connection with the two companies the nature of which, however, is not quite clear on the record before us.
The assessees are scattered all over the Union and machinery has to be devised for that purpose.
The case of Bowman vs Lewis(1) is in point.
The facts which are not in dispute may be shortly stated as follows.
No payment 891 having been made, the Additional Collector attached the goodwill and tenancy rights in the said premises by a warrant of attachment issued on the 24th March 1954.
This argument appears to us to be founded on a misapprehension about the true meaning of section 46(2).
The second objection to section 46(2) of the Indian Income tax Act is that it is violative of article 21.
In the view we take of the second part of the learned AttorneyGeneral 's argument to which we shall presently refer it is not necessary for us to express any opinion on this part of his argument.
The assessed amount is a public demand of the Union and has to be recovered, if not voluntarily paid up.
In the view we have taken about the merits of the petition it is not necessary for us to consider the question of its maintainability after the dismissal of the petition under article 226 or to make any pronouncement, on this occasion, on the scope and ambit of article 32 of the Constitution in that situation.
The assessee was actually arrested on the 1st July 1955.
The rule has now come up before us for hearing.
of a defaulter who fails to pay income tax as a punishment or penalty for an offence.
But that section goes on to say that no person shall be imprisoned for a longer period than two years or for a longer period than six months if the arrear does not exceed Rs. 500 or for a longer period than three months if the arrear does not exceed Rs. 50.
In our opinion the proviso does not indicate a different and alternative mode of recovery of the certified amount of tax but only confers additional powers on the Collector for the better and more effective application of the only mode of recovery authorised by the body of sub section (2) of section 46.
The reason is obvious, for the people of one State are not similarly situated as people of another State.
The sale was held on the 25th February 1955 fetching a price of Rs. 33,000 and it was confirmed on the 30th March 1955.
On the other hand, to hold that all the provisions of all the State laws for recovery of arrears of land revenue have been referentially incorporated in section 46(2) of the Indian Income tax Act will lead us into difficulties.
The machinery for recovery might be different between the several States but the defaulting assessees must be put on the same footing as regards the penalties.
We have, therefore, to pass on to the third objection to section 46(2) founded on article 14 of the Constitution which alone has been strenuously insisted on before us by learned counsel for the petitioner.
