If any in statutory interpretation belongs to the ill used wife and the derelict divorcee.
We see hardly any force in this plea.
The meaning of meanings is! derived from values in a given society and its legal system.
In the normal course, an order for maintenance must follow, the quantum having been determined by the learned Magistrate at the trial level.
79 However, Shri Sanghi, appearing for the respondent, sought sustain the order in his favour on three grounds They arc of pubic importance since the affected party in such a fact situation is the neglected divorcee.
In this appeal, by special leave, we are called upon to interpret a benign provision enacted to ameliorate the economic condition of neglected wives and discarded divorcees, namely.
P.C. Welfare laws must be so read as to be effective delivery systems of the salutary objects sought to be served by the Legislature and when the beneficiaries are the weaker sections, like destitute women, this spirit of article 15(3) of the Constitution must belight the meaning of the Section.
77 M. C. Bhandare, A. N. Karkhanis, Miss Malini Panduval and Mrs. section Bhandare for the Appellant.
15 The initial warmth vanished and the jealousies of a triangular situation erupted, marring mutual affection.
Payment of mehar money, as a customary discharge, is within the cognisance of that provision.
From this coign of vantage we must view the printed text of the particular Code.
A suit relating to a flat in which the husband had housed the wife resulted in a consent decree which also settled the marital disputes.
This traumatic horror animates the amplitude of s.127.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by A Prefatory statement KRISHNA IYER, J.
Art.15(3) has compelling, compassionate relevance in the context of section 125 and the benefit of doubt.
So the basic condition of neglect to maintain is satisfied.
" And another term in the settlement was that the appellant had by virtue of the compromise become the absolute owner of the flat and various deposits in respect of the said flat made with the cooperative housing society.
a simple reading of the sub section and it is curious how this innovative and sensitive provision with a benignant disposition towards destitute divorcees has been overlooked by all the courts below.
s 125.
The Constitution is a pervasive omnipresence brooding over the meaning and transforming the values of every measure.
The proposition, therefore, is that no husband can claim under section 127(3)(b) absolution from this obligation under section 125 towards a divorced wife except on proof of payment of a sum stipulated by customary or personal law whose quantum is more or less sufficient to do duty for maintenance allowance.
78 For some time there was flickering improvement in the relations between the quondum husband and the quondum wife and they lived together.
But if one were to locate a legal ground to raise The contention That the liability to pay maintenance had ceased on account of the payment of mehar, it is section 127(3) of the Code.
The respondent divorced the appellant around July 1962.
We hold that every divorce otherwise eligible, is entitled to the benefit of maintenance allowance and the dissolution of the marriage makes no difference to this right under the current Code.
The whole scheme of section 127(3) (b) is manifestly to recognise the substitute maintenance arrangement by lump sum payment organised by the custom of the community or the personal law of the parties.
Do divorcees have to 1) prove mutual consent to live apart? Divorce painfully implies that the husband orders her out of the conjugal home.
The compulsive conclusion from a divorce by a husband and his provision of a separate residence as evidenced by the consent decree fills the bill.
He first argued that section 125(4) would apply in the absence of proof that the lady was not living separately by mutual consent.
This social perspective granted, the resolution of all the disputes projected is easy.
The Brief Facts The respondent (husband) married the appellant (wife) as a second wife, way back in 1956, and a few years later had a son by her.
For instance, it recited that this respondent had transferred the suit premises, namely, a flat in Bombay, to the appellant and also the shares of the Cooperative Housing Society which built the flat concerned.
So we must deal with the dual sub heads of the third ground.
This order was challenged before the sessions Judge by the aggrieved husband, who on a strange view of the law that the court, under section 125, had no jurisdication to consider whether the applicant was a wife, dismissed the petition in allowance of the appeal.
The next submission is that the absence of mutual consent to live separately must be made out if the hurdle of section 125(4) is to be over come.
Nor can s.127 rescue the respondent from his obligation.
In this generous jurisdiction, a broader perception and appreciation of the facts and their bearing must govern the verdict not chopping little logic or tinkering with burden of proof.
The appellant, finding herself in financial straits and unable to maintain herself, moved the magistrate under section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, for a monthly allowance for the maintenance of herself and her child.
Thereafter, again they separated, became entranged.
or has obtained a divorce from, her husband and has not remarried.
The Questions Mooted Shri Bhandare appearing for the appellant contended that the Courts below had surprisingly forgotten the plain provision in the Explanation (b) to section 125(1) of the Code, which reads: "wife ' includes a woman who has been divorced by.
