The appeal is dismissed.
R. (4) Salmon J. in his charge to the jury in R. V. Fantle reported in (5) 370 The law would fail to protect the community if it admitted fanciful possibilities to deflect the course of justice.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
He, therefore, acquitted the accused.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing, it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
If two reasonably probable and evenly balanced views of the evidence are possible, one must necessarily concede the existence of a reasonable doubt.
The Learned Sessions Judge held that the prosecution had failed to establish any motive and that the evidence of the prosecution witnesses was 'discrepant, conflicting and improbable. ' He thought that the prosecution had made an attempt to improve its case which was originally based on circumstantial evidence to made it appear as if P.W. 3 had also seen the stabbing.
There was no fracture.
He urged that the knife was not seized by the Police under any seizure Memo nor was the knife sent to any finger print expert.
P. W. 14, the Sub Inspector of Police registered the First Information Report at 5 A. M. on 19th December, 1972 and went ahead with the further investigation which was later taken over by the Inspector of Police P.W. 15.
P. W. 1 beat him with a stick two or three times.
Where the Trial Court allows itself to be beset with fanciful doubts, rejects creditworthy evidence for slender reasons and takes a view of the evidence which is but barely possible, it is the obvious duty of the High Court to interfere in the interest of justice, lest the administration of justice be brought to ridicule.
It is true that the accused did not have any deep motive to kill the deceased.
They insulted him.
The High Court reversed the finding of acquittal.
It stems out of the fundamental principle, of our criminal jurisprudence that the accused is entitled to the benefit of any reasonable doubt.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
On 18th December, 1972.
Thereafter, P. W. 9 prepared his own report exhibit P. 4 and sent it alongwith exhibit P. 1 and M.O. 1 to the Police Station at Renigunta.
The plea of the accused was one of denial.
P. Ws. 1 and 2 taunted him saying "we are maintaining you and your wife, yet you come at any time you like` '.
The house consisted of only one room.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased 's mother.
He commented on the failure of the Police to seize the mat or bedding on which the deceased was sleeping.
He regained consciousness next morning.
The learned Sessions Judge thought that when there were two divergent versions given by the prosecution and the defence and when two views were possible, the benefit of doubt should be given to the accused.
They found the deceased bleeding profusely from the left side of her chest.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
We do not think that the comment is justified.
That evening the accused again came to the house of his mother in law.
They were married about one and a half years before the occurrence.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan, this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion, bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup 's case.
They got him examined by a Doctor.
In Khem Karan & Ors.
He felt giddy and was about to lose consciousness.
This time he also brought with him P.W. 8, an elderly gentleman from his village.
Attracted by the cries raised by the P.Ws. 1 to 3, the neighbourers P. Ws. 4, 5, 6 and others came there.
