On special leave being granted, the above petitions were registered as appeals.
Since one of the grounds on which the High Court dismissed the petition was that the petitioners were not prompt in moving the High Court, we shall first examine whether the High Court was right in doing so, since if we agree with the High Court on the above question, it would become unnecessary to go into the other questions raised before us.
It was, however, argued before us relying upon a news item which had appeared in a daily called 'Nav Bharat ' dated October 21, 1978 in which there was a reference to a statement made by the Minister for Local Self Government of Madhya Pradesh regarding the irregularity in the division of Raipur town into different wards for purposes of election.
When the petition came up for order on December 29, l 978, it had to be adjourned to December 30, 1978 at the request of the counsel for the petitioners.
Aggrieved by the order passed by the High Court, Ashok Kumar Mishra and Bhagwat Singh Thakur (Petitioners No. 1 and 5 respectively in the 494 petition before the High Court) filed a petition for special leave to appeal to this Court and Purshottam Lal Sharma (petitioner No. 6 before the High Court) filed another petition.
One of the grounds on which the appellants challenged the validity of the electoral roll, the calendar of events and the declaration of results of election was that the entire election process had become vitiated on account of the defect in the notice issued under Rule (1) of the Rules notifying that claims and objections should be preferred within a period of 20 days from the date of the publication of that notice when sub rule (3) of Rule 4 of the Rules prescribed that such claims and objections could be preferred within 30 days from the date of publication of that notice.
They prayed for a further direction to be issued to the respondents calling upon them to hold the election after preparing the electoral roll afresh in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Rules.
No satisfactory explanation was given in the course of the petition by the petitioners as to why they delayed the filing of the petition till December 28, 1978 even though they knew that there was an error in the notice issued under Rule 4(1) of the Rules in the month of October, 1978 more than two months before the date on which i, was filed.
The final electoral roll was published on November 16, 1978.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH, J.
The High Court after hearing the parties dismissed the petition holding (i) that respondent No. 2, the Deputy Collector had asked petitioner No. S to appear before him on October 30, 1978 and that as he did not produce any evidence in support of his claim, his application was dismissed, (ii) that none of the persons mentioned in Annexure P 7 preferred any claim before respondent No. 2 on October 20, 1978 and that he did not refuse to receive any such claim and that no person preferred any claim or objection after October 19, 1978 before respondent No. 2 and (iii) that the petitioners were not entitled to any relief as they had approached the Court after undue delay.
No such appeal was presented.
It was open to them to move the State Government under Rule 6 of the Rules to make an order directing the Collector to follow .
The period prescribed for preferring claims and objections under Rule 4(3) was 30 days.
became a nullity and that therefore, the declaration of results of all the 44 successful candidates was liable to be quashed.
For the purpose of holding election to the .
By that time, the nominations had all been received.
