We concur with that finding.
In respect of both properties, the revenue records mentioned the name of Mahant Shivshankar Yati and not that of the Math or the deity.
The Pronamis given to a Mohunt are generally his personal property.
They included sanyasis who had formerly been married men and householders, men who had passed through the grihastha ashram.
That certain sects of sanyasis could acquire personal property was accepted by that eminent Judge, Dr. B.K. Mukherjee, in his "Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trusts",(a) where he says: "A Mohunt, and for the matter of that, any other Sanyasi can acquire personal property of his own.
He was granted a succession certificate by the District Judge, Ghazipur in respect of the two fixed deposits made by Mahant Shivpher Yati in the Bank of Bengal.
The High Court allowed both the appeals by its judgment and decree dated April 21, 1969.
It was observed in Sushil Chandra Sen vs Gobind Chandra Das(l) that Dashnami sanyasis mixed freely in the business world and carried on trade and often accumulated property.
The learned Civil Judge decreed the suit but included a finding in his judgment that Sadashiv Yati was not a regularly constituted Mahant of Math Sauna and Sarbarakar of the deity.
The Mahants and members of Math Sauna belonged to the Dashnami Sanyasi sect.
He alleged that Mahant Shivshanker Yati owned personal properties which included the properties in village Amauli, that he was the chela of Mahant Shivshanker Yati and the Amauli properties had passed to him under a will executed by the Mahant.
Mahant Shivshankar Yati executed a will in 1956, and it appears beyond dispute that by virtue of this will the Amauli properties devolved on Uma Shankar Yati.
The suit was contested by the first defendant, Kedar Nath Chaubey, also referred to as Uma Shanker Yati.
It was claimed that in the event of Mahant Sadashiva Yati being found out of possession a decree for possession should be made.
The surplus, the deed directed was to be employed for acquiring further property in the name of the deity and was not to be applied by the Sarbarakar to his personal use.
He asserted that Shivshanker Yati possessed no personal property.
He had also inherited the personal property of Mahant Shivbaran Yati, who owned three private properties in village Shiv Dass in the district of Banaras.
P.B.R. Appeal dismissed.
S.T. Desai, A.T.M. Sampath, Mukul Mudgal and Raju Ramachandran for the Appellants.
The High Court has found that the claim was not accepted by the assessing authority, and that the position in regard to those properties taken in the assessment proceedings was adopted by the Mahant only for the purpose of escaping personal liability to tax.
We are concerned in this appeal solely with the Amauli properties.
Math Sauna is an old Math situated in the village of that name in Tehsil Saidpur in the district of Ghazipur.
We are in agreement with the High Court that the fund from which the Amauli properties were acquired constituted the personal property of Mahant Shivpher Yati.
On his death in 1917, all those properties and wealth devolved on Mahant Shivshankar Yati.
