It is well settled that if an earlier legislation is incorporated into a later legislation, the provisions of earlier law which are incorporated into the later law become a part and parcel of the later law.
However, we are unable to accept any of these.
These are the main points argued by the learned Attorney General on behalf of the appellant Companies.
The property tax is imposed by respondent 1 under section 127A of the Municipalities Act and section 135 of the Municipal Corporation Act.
This contention does not appear to have been taken before the assessing authority.
The first contention of the learned Attorney General is that respondent I can exercise only such powers to levy property tax as the Municipal Corporation or the Municipal Council had under the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Corporation Act, 1956, or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961, as these Acts stood on 12 February 27, 1976, when clause (d) was inserted in its present form in section 69 of the Act of 1973.
The power conferred by the State Legislature on Special Area Development Authorities to impose the property tax on lands and buildings is therefore not in conflict with the power conferred by the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act on the Union Government to regulate and develop the Coal mines so as to ensure rational and scientific utilisation of coal resources.
Finally, in State of Madhya Pradesh vs M. V. Narasimhan this Court held, after an examination of the relevant decisions, that the broad principle that where a subsequent Act incorporates provisions of a previous Act then the borrowed provisions become an integral and independent part of the subsequent Act and are totally unaffected by any repeal or amendment in the previous Act, is subject to four exceptions, one of which is that the principle will not apply to cases "where the subsequent Act and the previous Act are supplemental to each other".
For these reasons the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.
It says that "the Corporation shall impose a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the building or land called the property tax".
(ii) X X X X X X (iii)X X X X X X (iv) X X X X X X (v) where the annual letting 20 per centum value exceeds of the annual Rs. 24,000 letting value (2) The property tax levied under sub section (1) shall not be leviable in respect of the following properties, namely: 10 (a) building and lands owned by or vesting in (i) the Union Government; (ii) the State Government; (iii)the Council.
(see Secretary of State for India in Council vs Hindusthan Cooperative Insurance Society Ltd).
The first contention of the Attorney General must therefore fail.
puts the matter beyond all doubt.
As observed in Nathella Sampathu Chetty, there is a distinction between a mere reference to or a citation of one statute in another and an incorporation which in effect means the bodily lifting of the provisions of one enactment and making them part of another, so much so that the repeal of the former leaves the latter wholly untouched.
It is therefore not necessary to follow the procedure prescribed by sections 129 and 133 of the respective Acts.
This is not, as said by the Attorney General rationalising the taxing power.
L.N. Sinha, Attorney General, R. B. Datar and Miss A. Subhashini for the Appellants.
Entry 23 of List II relates to "Regulation of mines and mineral development subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union".
It is not possible to accept this submission because sections 127A and 135 of the two Acts in question leave no such choice open to the taxing authority.
Rs. 6,000.
Section 127A which was inserted in the Municipalities Act for imposition of property tax reads as follows, in so far as relevant: "127A. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, as and from the financial year 1976 77, there shall be charged, levied and paid for each financial year a tax on the lands or buildings or both situate in a municipality other than class IV municipality at the rate specified in the table below: (i) where the annual letting 6 per centum value exceeds Rs. 1,800 of the annual but does not exceed letting value.
The answer to this contention will depend mainly upon whether the provisions of the Municipalities Act and the Municipal Corporation Act were incorporated into the Act of 1973 by its section 69(d).
In the High Court, an additional point was taken, based upon the agreement dated June 24, 1976, which was entered into between the appellant Companies and respondent 1.
In the other two appeals (Nos. 1025 and 1026 of 1978), the appellant, Western Coalfields Ltd., is also a hundred per cent undertaking of the Government of India.
This contention is devoid of substance.
The lands and buildings are vested in and owned by the companies: the Government of India only owns the share capital.
The Act of 1973 did not, by section 69(d), incorporate in its true signification any particular provision of the two earlier Acts.
That is because the legislature, which adopts by incorporation the existing provisions of another law, cannot be assumed to intend to bind itself to all future amendments or modifications which may be made in the earlier law.
Applying these principles, we are of the opinion that in the instant case, subsequent amendments made to the Municipal Corporation Act and the Municipalities Act will also apply to the power of taxation provided for in section 69(d) of the Act of 1973.
By the aforesaid declaration and the enactment of section 15, the whole of the field relating to minor minerals had come within the jurisdiction of Parliament and no scope was left for the enactment of the second proviso to section 10 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act.
Under section 5(1) of the Coal Mines (Nationalisation) Act, 26 of 1973, which applies in the instant case, the right title and interest of a nationalised coal mine vest, by direction of the Central Government, in the Government company.
Those authorities have the power to levy that tax in order effectively to discharge the municipal functions which are passed on to them.
N.V.K. Appeals dismissed.
By another Notification, dated March 15, 1977, published in Government Gazette, dated July 15, 1977, the Development Authority, Korba, was directed under the aforesaid clauses of sections 68 and 69 to exercise the powers and perform the functions under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956.
The decision of a Constitution Bench of this Court in The Ishwari Khetan Sugar Mills (P) Ltd. vs The State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors., is even more to the point.
Section 69(d) of the Act of 1973 reads thus: "69.
A reading of the reference to the two earlier Municipal Acts as a reference to those Acts as they stand at the time when the power of taxation is sought to be exercised by respondent 1, will not, possibly, cause repugnancy between the two earlier Acts on one hand and the Act of 1973 on the other, nor indeed will it cause any confusion in the practical application of the earlier Acts, because the Act of 1973 does not contain any independent provision or machinery for exercising the power of taxation.
Section 129 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act prescribes the procedure for "the imposition of any tax under section 127".
While the Company was pursuing that matter with the State Government, contending that it was not liable to pay the entry tax by reason of the aforesaid agreement, on January 4, 1977 respondent 1 made a further demand of Rs. 3 lakhs on the Company for contribution for the year 1977.
That amount not having been paid as provided in the agreement, respondent 1 terminated the agreement by its letter dated February 4, 1977.
the decision of the Privy Council could not be extended too far so as to cover every case in which the provisions of another statute are adopted by absorption (see page 837).
In 1964, the Madhya Pradesh State Legislature had enacted the Madhya Pradesh Nagariya Sthawar Sampatti Kar Adhiniyam, which was made applicable to the whole State, including the urban areas.
The case therefore is not one of incorporation but of mere reference to the powers conferred by the earlier Acts.
The agreement was to remain in force for a period of ten years beginning from the calendar year 1976 and the annual payments due from 1977 were to be made in January every year.
11 The appellant Company disputed its liability to pay the aforesaid amounts on the grounds, principally, that no tax was leviable on its property since the Company was owned wholly by the Government of India and that respondent 1 was estopped from levying the property tax by reason of the agreement of 1976.
The reasoning adopted in this decision shows that it is not correct to say that the property tax provided for in the Act of 1973 is beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature; that tax has nothing to do with the development of mines.
It is urged that if at all the lands can be subjected to property tax, it is the State Government and not the appellant companies who can be called upon to pay that tax.
Finally, the learned Attorney General raised a contention of fundamental importance which was not raised in the High Court.
On June 24, 1976, respondent 1 (the Special Area Development Authority, Korba) entered into an agreement with the appellant Company under which the Company agreed to contribute a sum of Rupees three lakhs annually to the "seed capital" of the Authority in consideration of the Authority agreeing not to exercise its power of taxation or of levying any other charges on the assets and activities of the Company under the Act of 1973 as amended from time to time or under any other Act or notification.
Likewise, logically, where certain provisions from an existing Act have been incorporated into a subsequent Act, no addition to the former Act, which is not expressly made applicable to the subsequent Act, 13 can be deemed to be incorporated in it.
It provides that, for the purpose of taxation, the Special Area Development Authority shall have the powers which a Municipal Corporation or a Municipal Council has under the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 or the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961.
This Court held that the pith and substance of the amended section 10(2) fell within Entry 23 although it incidentally touched land and that, therefore, the amendment was subject to the overriding power of Parliament as declared in section 15 of the .
It was further held by the Court that the land cess was not a tax on mineral rights but was in truth and substance a "tax on lands" within the meaning of Entry 49 of the State List.
It was contended on behalf of 23 the sugar undertakings that since sugar is a declared industry under the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, Parliament alone was competent to pass a law on the subject and the State Legislature had no competence to pass the impugned Act by reason of Entry 52, List I read with Entry 24, List II.
Respondent 1, the Special Area Development Authority for the Korba Special Area, is constituted under section 65 of the Madhya Pradesh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam (23 of 1973), referred to hereinafter as 'the Act of 1973 '.
14 Section 69(d) of the Act of 1973 must accordingly be read to mean that respondent 1 shall have all the powers of taxation which a Municipal Corporation or a Municipal Council has for the time being, that is to say, at the time when respondent 1 seeks to exercise those powers.
Surely, the functions, powers and duties of Municipalities do not become an occupied field by reason of the declaration contained in section 2 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957.
Apart from this the position is put beyond doubt by the language of sections 129 and 133 of two Acts.
The corresponding provision in the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 is section 132 (1)(a).
The learned Attorney General, who appears on behalf of the appellants, has raised four or five principal points, any one of which, if accepted, will result in the success of these appeals.
Having failed to persuade respondent 1 to accept its point of view, the Company filed o Writ Petition in the Madhya Pradesh High Court asking that the demands be quashed.
We would, however, like to draw attention to the Explanation to section 147 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act which says that though the property tax has to be paid by the owner of the land or building, as the case may be, for the purposes of that section a tenant of land or building or both, who holds the same under a lease for an agreed period with a convenant for its renewal thereafter, shall be deemed to be the owner thereof.
Apart from the fact that there is no data before us showing that the property tax constitutes an impediment in the achievement of the goals of the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act, the provisions of the M.P. Act of 1973, under which Special Areas and Special Area Development Authorities are constituted afford an effective answer to the Attorney General 's contention.
