All of them are to be appointed to the corresponding Supertime Grade I and Supertime Grade II of the new Categories.
This post required the appellant to take up 24 teaching classes in Radiotherapy for the Master of Surgery (M.S.), Diploma in Gynaecology & Obstetrics (D.G.O.) and M.B.B.S. courses.
On January 14, 1963 the appellant was appointed as a Lecturer in Radiology in Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi, a post placed in Category `E ' of the Central Health Service and continued to work in that capacity till October 8, 1964.
The Union Public Service Commission while advertising the post of Professor Radiotherapy which has fallen vacant, must, as it rightly did, invite the appellant for an interview for being considered for appointment to that post.
It is declared that the appellant had acquired the requisite teaching experience as envisaged by r. 8 (2A) and paragraph 3 of Annexure I to the Second Schedule of the Central Health Service Rules, 1963, as amended by the Central Health Service (Amendment) Rules, 1966, and was therefore eligible to be considered for appointment to the post of Associate Professor of Radiotherapy in Maulana Azad Medical College which had fallen vacant in 1973.
That is to say, there is certain amount of flexibility and it cannot be that the appellant who is a Radiologist in the Maulana Azad Medical College which is a post belonging to Specialists Grade II, cannot be appointed by direct recruitment as Professor of Radiotherapy under r. 8 (2).
Delhi etc.
In trying to refute the appellant 's allegation that there was denial of equal opportunity, it is asserted : "In the absence of the particular advertisement for the post of Associate Professor, it is not possible to indicate as to when the applications were first called for the appointment to the post of Associate Professor of Radiology in a teaching institution participating in the CHS.
are filled by promotion of officers of composite Supertime Grade II.
In the vacancy caused thereby, Dr. Shinghal who was Specialist in Ophthalmology attached to the Willindon Hospital, was offered the post of Chief Opthalmologist cum Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, Medical College, Simla.
By amendments dated February 21, 1968 and September 18, 1971, paragraphs 2 (b) and 3 of Annexure I to the Second Schedule and sub r.
It is necessary to emphasise that the recruitment rules nowhere provide that the teaching experience gained by a Specialist in a teaching hospital in the capacity of an Associate Professor (ex officio) shall not count towards the requisite teaching experience.
Part B provides that every departmental candidate who was initially appointed to a category "other than Categories 'A ' and 'B ' shall be appointed to the newly formed appropriate Category "After selection".
That is to say, 100% of vacancies in the Specialists ' Grade have to be filled by direct recruitment through the Union Public Service Commission.
There is a failure on the part of the Ministry of Health to draw a distinction between teaching and non teaching hospitals under the Central Health Service.
The Under graduate teaching programme is only an internal arrangement of the Radiology Department.
There is no order placed before us of the President of India directing that conferral of honorary teaching designations on Specialists in the Willingdon 43 Hospital and the Safdarjang Hospital would not entitle such Specialists to claim seniority or eligibility for promotion.
However, the University College of Medical Sciences which is under the administrative control of the University of Delhi has been utilising the services of the Medical officers of the CHS working in the Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi, for clinical teaching of the students of the University College of Medical Sciences.
The letter is self explanatory and reads : "With reference to the telephonic conversation with Sri R. N. Tewari with respect to the question received from the Supreme Court regarding Dr. A. K. Bose I have to state that Dr. Bose while performing his duties as Radiologist was not lecturing to the students as an Associate Professor is required to do.
Dr. A.K. Bose has been delivering lectures to post graduates of Delhi University and has guided some thesis.
That conclusion however does not relieve us from dealing 40 with the main question viz. whether the appellant possessed the qualifications and experience requisite for appointment to the post of Associate Professor of Radiotherapy.
The teaching in these medical colleges is undertaken by Professors and Associate Professors as well as by Specialists attached to the hospitals affiliated to the respective colleges.
The Health Ministry has also submitted a separate note regarding persons imparting teaching in various disciplines who are neither Professor, Associate Professor, Assistant Professor or Lecturer.
S.R. Appeal allowed.
The two general hospitals under the Central Health Service are the Willingdon Hospital & Nursing Home, New Delhi and the Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi.
in Part A of Annexure II or equiva lent servant.
Since Dr. Bose was holding the clinical post of Radiologist, he was not in direct line of and eligible for promotion to the post of Associate Professor.
The mere fact that the appellant was not drawing a teaching allowance of Rs. 200/ p.m. is of no legal consequence because the allowance is attached to the post of Associate Professor.
, p. 104 the meaning of the word "as" as given is : "Used as an adverb, etc.
The modern pattern in medical education during recent years is the organization of clinical units.
On October 9, 1964 he was appointed as a Radiologist in the Irwin Hospital which was a post in Category `C ' of the Central Health Service.
During this period, they learn to apply the knowledge gained in their pursuit of the basic medical sciences to the study of general medicine and the medical and surgical specialities.
