Acceptance must be signified by some act or acts agreed on by the parties or from which the law raises a presumption of acceptance.
It is not necessary to set out in detail those issues but the important and main issue was whether there was a concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation of India.
The allegation that there was assurance on behalf of the field officer and local agent to the deceased that the payment of first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal cannot also be accepted firstly because factually it was not proved and secondly because 359 there was no evidence that such could have been the deposition in law.
The respondents plaintiffs examined Shri R.V. Bhupala Prasad, son of the deceased and the Corporation on its behalf examined Shri Jagannadhachari, the Superintendent of the Corpo 355 ration branch at Guntur.
In coming to this conclusion the High Court relied on the alleged adjustment and the endorsement of the review slip recommending that the proposal "may be accepted" made on the relevant file by the Assistant Divisional Manager.
He held that as per the prospectus of Life Insurance Corporation of India the risk under the Corporation policy commenced on the date of receipt of the first premium in full or the date of acceptance whichever was later and the second instalment of the premium falls due on a date calculated from such date of commencement of risk.
On the other hand, there was a general statement that there was no concussed contract.
When an insurance policy becomes effective is well settled by the authorities but before we note the said authorities, it may be stated that it is clear that the expression "underwrite" signifies accept liability under '.
This appeal is by a certificate granted on 18th September, 1970 by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh under Article 133(1) (a) of the Constitution as it stood at the relevant time against the Judgment and decree of the High Court dated 16th April, 1970.
See in this connection statement of law in MacGillivray & Parkington on Insurance Law, Seventh Edition page 94 paragraph 215.
Choudhary for the respondents.
The mere receipt and retention of premium until after the death of the applicant or the mere preparation of the policy document is not acceptance.
Dr. YS Chitale, V. G. Shanker, KL Hathi, Ms. Sadhana, DK Chhaya, MK Arora and Mrs. H. Wahi for the appellant.
The dictionary meaning also indicates that.
By the said Judgment and decree, the High Court of Andhra Pradesh had reversed the Judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge, Masulipatam dated 19th November, 1964 dismissing the suit of the plaintiffs respondents against the appellant.
It was alleged in the plaint after setting out the facts which have been set out hereinbefore, that the medical examination report was submitted to the appellant corporation by Dr. Sri C. Sambasiva Rao, Approved Medical practitioner of the appellant in regard to the medical examination of the deceased.
Cheque for Rs. 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January, 1961.
Thereafter there was correspondence between the parties between 1st February, 1961 to 23rd December, 1963 wherein the respondents plaintiffs had claimed the payment and the appellant had denied liability for the same.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
The contention of the Corporation that the proposal was not accepted and as such there was no concluded insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation, was untenable, according to the plaintiffs.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI, J.
When the application so requires, the acceptance must be evidenced by the signature of one of the company 's executive officers.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam, and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
Being aggrieved by the said decision, the plaintiffs respondents field appeal in the High Court.
Normally it took some time for the Divisional Manager to accept.
He also produced ex.
