J.D. Jain & Mrs. Kawaljit Kocher for the Appellant.
On April 1, 1975, the appellant was appointed as a Head Clerk.
He was appointed lawfully to the post of a Clerk and that is the post in which the Government has absorbed him.
He was, therefore, entitled to be absorbed in Government service as a clerk in any event.
Clearly, it had fortified that right on June 13, 1973.
the Panchayat.
But, as a result of the deletion of section 33 of the Act by the Amending Act of 1973, the Panchayat Samiti lost its power to make appointments to the Panchayat.
The appointment of the appellant to the post of a Head Clerk being without the authority of law, the Government was not bound to absorb him in the post of a Head Clerk.
Sub section (4) of section 14 of the Amending Act provides that persons employed by a Panchayat Samiti before April 1, 1973 and who were in service at the commencement of the Amending Act shall continue to service on the same terms and conditions on which they were employed by the Panchayat Samiti", until they are absorbed in the Government service or retire in such manner as may be prescribed.
Even assuming for the purposes of argument that the right to be considered for promotion is a term and condition of service, what is relevant for our purpose is not whether the appellant was entitled to be considered for promotion but, whether the Panchayat Samiti had the right to appoint him to the post of Head Clerk on the date on which it purported to do so.
The fact that the appellant was promoted as a Head Clerk on an ad hoc basis in January 1974, or the further fact that he was appointed as a Head Clerk on April 1, 1975, cannot improve his position for the simple reason that these appointments were made after June 13, 1973, being the date on which the Panchayat Samiti lost its power to make appointments to.
There will be no order as to costs.
Section 13 of the Amending Act deleted section 33 of the Act.
Sections 35(1) of the Act empowers the State Government to place at the disposal of a Panchayat Samiti such of its servants as are required for the implementation of the schemes connected therewith and for such other duties and functions as may be assigned to them by the Panchayat Samiti from time to time.
Since the appellant, according to the terms and conditions of his service with the Panchayat, was entitled to be considered for promotion to the post of a Head Clerk, his appointment as a Head Clerk prior to his absorption in Government service had to be recognised and protected, despite the fact that such appointment was made after June 13, 1973 when the Amending Act came into force.
The writ petition having been dismissed by the High Court, the appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
On January 21, 1974 he was promoted as a Head Clerk on an ad hoc basis.
any other law for the time being in force.
