Jogta P.S. Case No. 68/85 dated 1.12.85 u/s 341/34 IPC.
With W.P. (Criminal)No. 316 of 1986.
When he was dancing some of the members opened fire on him as a result of which he fell down.
There is no statement in the petition that the detenu is on bail.
M.L.A. Petition and Appeal allowed.
In the said case investigation was in progress and the defence of the petitioner in the murder case was that he was falsely implicated and was not at all concerned with the murder.
The petitioner/appellant states that he desired that he should be heard in person by the Advisory Board.
(Emphasis supplied) 5.
" According to the District Magistrate when police pressure to apprehend him became heavy, the detenu opted to surrender before the Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate on 10th January, 1986 in substantive case to frustrate the service of the detention order.
In this case subject and his associates tried to set free 908 the trucks and driver from the police custody by force and when he failed in his attempt he threatened the police officer and CISF Personnel to do away with their lives, C.S.No. 5/83 has already been submitted in this case.
The petitioner/ appellant thereafter filed a writ petition in the High Court of Patna which was dismissed without any speaking order.
The writ petition and the appeal are allowed to the extent indicated above.
Birendra Pratap Singh and his associates who were there also returned the firing in same manner.
In the instant case when the actual order of detention was served upon the detenu, the detenu was in jail.
At least the records of the case do not indicate that.
The order of detention though dated 2nd January, 1986 was served on or about 11th January, 1986.
There will, therefore, be no orders for release of the detenu.
Judged on the basis of 911 the said principles there is no ground for interference with the order of detention as passed.
The petitioner/appellant submits that he was produced before the Advisory Board but he was not given any hearing.
It has been further stated that the service of the detention order had been properly made.
When the order was passed, the petitioner had not surrendered but when the order was served, the petitioner had already surrendered in respect of the criminal charge against him.
Shopkeepers put down their shutters.
On or about 2nd January, 1985 the order of detention was passed on an incident relating to the exchange of fire between two rival groups.
There must be awareness of the facts necessitating preventive custody of a person for social defence.
26.9.86.
The normal tempo of life was completely disturbed.
As a result of this firing one innocent namely Brahamdeo Mishra was killed.
Besides the aforesaid ground the following cases are also referred hereunder as background to show the criminality of the subject.
On 24.12.1985, between 10 and 10.30.
Sri Sisir Rajan Das, however, acceded to their request and started dancing.
196/83 has already been submitted in this case.
In those circumstances it appears that the grounds for forming the satisfaction for the need for the detention were there, and there was rational nexus between the object of the order as contemplated by the Act and the materials on record.
It is the case of the appellant/petitioner that the detenu was not served with all the documents referred to and/or relied on.
A bald statement is merely an ipso dixit 912 of the officer.
The order states the grounds as follows: 1.
