The relevant part of regulation 19 amended on 21.1.1977 reades thus: "19(1).
Under Article 32, this Court is the constitutional sentinel not the national ombudsman.
We need an ombudsman but the court cannot make do." (page 1031) The decision taken by the Corporation and the Central Government as regards the ages of retirement of the differ ent classes of the employees of the Corporation in the instant case is a bona fide one and cannot be characterised as unreasonable.
The Central Government and the Corporation felt that 60 years of age could be a proper age of retirement in the circumstances in respect of the transferred employees and that was the reason why by regulation 19 and the standardisation order issued earlier in the case of certain classes of transferred em ployees under section 11(2) of the Act the retirement age was fixed at 60 years and this was done with a view to retaining the services of the experienced employees of the erstwhile insurers.
In other words the contention of the 1st Respondent before the High Court was that since he had the fight to continue in service if he had remained in Class III only till he attained the age of 60 years as a Class III employee by virtue of the settlement and the amendment of the regula tion 19 in the year 1965, the age of retirement in his case could not be reduced to 58 years only because he had been promoted to a Class I post.
1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as 'the Corporation ') which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may, if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so, direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months ' notice or salary in lieu thereof.
Thus, the statutory transfer of service from former employers and standardization of scales of remuneration and other conditions of employment had to be and were taken care of by section 11 of the Life Insur ance Corporation Act, 1956 (for short, the LIC Act).
So long employees are in Class III they can be said to constitute two different classes of transferred and direct appointees but once they are promoted they become similarly situated and the dis tinction stands obliterated.
" Pathak, J. (as he then was) in his judgment in the same case observed at pages 1134 to 1136 thus: "The first question is whether the new clause (9) of the Standardisation Order succeeds in defeating the claim of the workmen.
Clause (b), however, provided that every ministerial railway serv ant who had entered the Government service on or before 31st March, 1938 and who satisfied the conditions mentioned either in sub clause (i) or sub clause (ii) thereof was entitled to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years.
Regulation 21 reads as follows: "21.
The Ordinance was replaced by the which was published on 21st of March, 1956.
The object of enacting section 11 of the Act is dealt with in.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers, with a few exceptions, were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders, the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
Thereafter only the employees who are directly recruited by the Corporation who are about 54,000 in number would continue to remain in its service.
It is stated that there were cases pending in other courts also questioning the scope and ambit of sub section (2) of sec tion 11 of the Act as it stood originally.
Prior to January,.
It, therefore, became necessary to transfer the services of the existing employees of the insurers to the Corporation because without the services of those employees it was almost impossible for the Corporation to run the life insur ance business in India which involved management of the various offices situated in different parts of India, serv icing of lakhs of insurance policies, the administration of the assets taken over from the insurers and several other activities connected with the life insurance business.
While dealing with this question, the Court can take judicial notice of the differ ent ages of retirement prevailing in the several services in India.
On that day whereas the State cadre teachers were governed by 1955 Rules, rules had yet to be framed for the provincialised cadre a diminishing one and bringing about ultimately through that principle one cadre only in the field in a phased manner.
Unless such rationalisation and standardiza tion were evolved the ensuing chaos would itself have spelt confusion, conflicts and difficulties.
1955 there were more than 200 insur ers carrying on life insurance business in India.
It was pursuant to the said settlement that regulation 19 was amended with effect from 19.6.1965.
All the employees have often represented that the age of retirement should be raised to 60.
vs Union of India & Ors. etc.
In the case of the transferred employees the regula tion was in conformity with the standardisation order passed in respect of Class III and Class IV transferred employees in whose case the age of retirement was fixed at 60 years.
It may be so.
Accordingly, rule 2046 (F.R. 56) of the Indian Railway Fundamental Rules had to be modified.
The obvious purpose of this provision was to enable the Corpora tion initially to absorb the motley multitudes from many companies who carried with them varying incidents of service so as to fit them into a fair pattern, regardless of their antecedent contracts of employment or industrial settlements or awards.
Explanation: The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension, gratuity, provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
The above regulation thus made a distinction between an employee who entered the service of the Corporation after it was estab lished, i.e., after 1st September, 1956 and the transferred employees insofar as the age of retirement was concerned.
The Re spondent, A. Pitchumani questioned before the High Court of Mysore (Karnataka) the validity of the note substituted by the Order dated December 23, 1967 which took away his right to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years which he otherwise possessed before the introduction of the said note.
" In the above new rule every railway servant, whose case did not fall under clause (b) of that rule was required to retire on the date he attained the age of 58 years.
It should be stated at the outset that some of the questions raised before us are already covered by pronounce ments made by this Court.
The office of section 11 of the LIC Act was to provide for a smooth take over and to promote some common conditions of service in a situation where a jungle of divergent contracts of employment and industrial awards or settlements confront ed the State.
It was further pleaded that the discrimination made between the employees belonging to Class I and Class II on the one hand and the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV on the other in the matter of the age of superannuation was not invalid since they belonged to two distinct categories of employees who were governed by different conditions of service as regards pay, perquisites, allowances, administrative powers etc.
The employees of the Corporation were divided lati tudinally into two groups.
The power under this part of sub section
If through historical reasons the teachers had remained in two separate catego ries, the classification of the provincialised teachers into a separate cadre could not be said to infringe article 14 and article 16.
In the Workmen case itself, this Court did not extend the benefit of super annuation at the age of 60 to all clerical staff but limited the same to that category of employees working in the Refin ery Division, Bombay.
" Clause 13 of the above Order, therefore, modified regu lation 21 of the (Staff) Regulations, 1956 to the extent indicated therein with effect from the commencement of the Corporation.
The regulations and other provisions as in force immediately before the commencement of the Life Insurance Corporation (Amendment) Act, 1981, with respect to the terms and conditions of service of employees and agents of the Corporation including those who became employees and agents of the Corpo ration on the appointed day under this Act, shall be deemed to be rules made under clause (cc) of sub section (2) and shall, subject to the other provisions of this section, have effect accordingly." (underlining by us) empha sis supplied Clause (cc) of section 48(2) of the Act, however, has been given retrospective effect from 20th June, 1979.
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
The apparent or inherent intention sought to be achieved by the regulation 19 framed by Corporation was to continue upto age of sixty years the employees of insurers as the age of superannuation in some of the companies was sixty and to derive benefit from expertise and experience of employees who had worked with insurers.
Before the date of his retirement, he instituted a writ petition out of which these appeals arise in Civil Miscellaneous Writ No. 6849 of 1984 on the file of the High Court of Allahabad questioning the validity of regulation 19(2) of the (Staff) Regulations, 1960 as it stood then and praying for the issue of a writ in the nature of mandamus to the Corporation not to retire him before he completed the age of 60 years.
In the light of the above it is suggested that the provisions of the Standardisation Order may be extended to transferred officers and the retirement age may be retained at 58 for persons recruited on or after 1st January 1959.
In Dr. Nikhil Bhushan Chandra vs Union of India & Ors., (Civil Order 218 No. 13958 (W) of 1980) decided on December 21, 1982 the High Court of Calcutta has rejected a similar claim.
An employee belonging to the Class I or Class II ap pointed to the service of the Corporation on or ' after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age, but the appointing authority may at its discretion, extend his service for one year at a time upto 60 years of age.
The High Court did not find any unconstitutionality in a rule or regulation providing the age of retirement at 60 years of employees who had been absorbed from the service of the erstwhile insurers and to that extent it observed that one could say that the grouping being reasonable the Court might not travel into the domain of legislative policy.
The functional focus of section 11 205 of the LIC Act will dispel scope for interpretative exer cises unrelated to the natural setting in which the problem occurs.
NOTE: For the purpose of this Clause, the expression "Government Service" includes service rendered in ex company, and ex State Railways, and in a former provincial Govern ment.
We may at this stage refer to a recent decision of this Court in Miss Lena Khan vs Union of India and Ors.
It accordingly held that the 1st Respondent was entitled to continue till he attained the age of 60 years as other Class I employees belonging to the category of transferred employees.
It empowers the Central Government to reduce the remuneration payable or revise the other terms and conditions of service.
As regards retirement, the Government has mentioned that the Department of Expenditure has objected to raising the date of superannuation to 58 years of age on the ground that other statutory Corporations are also demanding the same benefit on the analogy of the Life Insurance Corporation 's proposal.
Thereafter only one class of employees would be in the service of the Corpo ration, namely, those appointed subsequent to 1st September, 1956 by the Corporation in respect of whom the Corporation has fixed the age of retirement as 58 years which corre sponds to the age of retirement in almost all the public sector establishments, the Central Government services and the State Government services.
The Writ Petition was allowed striking down regulation 19(2) as being violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India and the Corporation was directed not to retire the 1st Respondent before he attained the age of 60 years.
The two decisions, referred to above, have been rendered by two different Division Benches.
The above decision of the Bombay High Court was delivered on 16.4.1957.
is not acceptable to any employee, the Corporation may terminate his employ ment by giving him compensation equivalent to three months ' remuneration unless the contract of service with such em ployee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
The appointed day for the purposes of the Act is, therefore, September 1. 1956.
Hence in order to remove all doubts the President of India promulgated an ordinance (which was replaced by Act 17/1957) substituting a new sub section in the place of the original sub section (2) of section II of the Act making it more comprehensive and thus enabling the Central Government to alter suitably all conditions of service of the transferred employees.
By virtue of the judgment of the High Court, the 1st Respondent continued in the service of the Corporation till he complet ed 60 years of age.
May be laudable, reason able and proper.
217 In O.P. No. 5295 of 1985 and connected cases on the file of the High Court of Kerala which was decided on 4.2.
In my opinion, it is confined to transferred employees.
In our view the fact that an employee had entered the service of the Corporation after September 1, 1956 in a Class III post and is later on promoted to a Class I post does not make any difference in so far as the question which arises for decision before us.
Accordingly, the President of India agreed to release 16 persons from the service of the Government of India to enable the Corporation to appoint them in its service by the Order of the Central Government dated 25th February, 1964.
A.I.R. 1973 CAL.
That power is to be exercised when the Central Government is satisfied that the interests of the Corporation and its Policy holders require such reduction of revision.
In order to meet the above need section 11 of the Act came to be enacted.
The High Court 202 issued 'an interim order of stay of his retirement on May 22, 1984.
Classification of employees into two categories for purposes of fixing the age of superannuation depending upon their dates of entry into service when the necessity for doing so arises on account of certain historical reasons is not unknown.
The Act, howev er, came into force on 1st July, 1956.
Ltd., directed the retirement age of the clerical staff of the Refinery Division of respondent 1 to be fixed at 60 years.
Leave and retirement In the matter of leave and retire ment, Development Officers shall be governed by the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Regulations, 1960, as amended from time to time.
The second of them is due to.retire within 2/3 months and only one of them would continue in the service of the Corporation for about a period of two years more.
This Order applied to the members of the staff of the Corporation belonging to Class III and Class IV categories.
Predictably, when the transferred employees of different insurers were brought together in common employment under the Corporation they would have been enjoying different scales of remuneration and other terms and conditions of service.
The teachers then employed in those schools, thus became State employees.
As regards new recruits, it was thought that there was no justification to bring down the retirement age from 60 to 55 all of a sudden nor was it considered necessary to maintain any distinction between officers and staff.
This decision has no relevance to the present case although the High Court has relied on it in deciding this case.
The High Court of Mysore struck down a part of the new note only on the ground that it was discriminatory and directed that the Respondent, A. Pitchumani should be allowed to continue in the service till he completed the age of 60 years.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
The terms and conditions of service of the employees and agents of the Corporation, including those who became employees and agents of the Corporation on the appointed day under this Act, . . . . . . (2A).
It, however, found that when once a transferred employee belonging to Class III and an employee appointed after 1st September, 1956 by the Corporation to a Class III post are promoted to Class I the distinction of transferred employee and direct appointee could not be maintained as on promotion they became persons belonging to the same category of employees enjoying the same conditions of service.
That rule was, therefore, substituted by a new rule on January 11, 1967.
(2) of section 11, by its first limb, confers power on the Central Government to alter the scales of remuneration and other terms and conditions of service applicable to transferred employees.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers, the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment, stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
It was also contended that whatever may be the position in respect of persons who were appointed directly to any post belonging to Class I or Class II category after 1st September, 1956, as regards those who joined the service of the Corporation on being appointed to a Class III post after 1st September, 1956 there could not be any reduction of the age of retirement from 60 years to 58 years on their being promoted to a Class I post or Class II post.
In Govindarajulu vs The Management of Union Bank of India & Ors., (Writ Petition No. 5486 of 1980) the High Court of Madras rejected the said claim by its judgment dated 21.11.
