In short, an officiating Govern ment servant does not really belong to Class I or Class II service until he acquires a right thereon.
The observations made in Tahiliani 's case indisputably support the petitioner.
As already indicated above he had crossed the age of 50 years but had not attained the age of 55 years by the date of the impugned order.
VAISH) ENGINEER IN CHIEF To Shri A.L. Ahuja, Assistant Engineer (Civil), (Under Suspension), A11/85, Lajpat Nagar, New Delhi 110024.
Therefore, sub clause (1) was not contravened when the order was made.
He has assailed that order for retirement and has claimed payment of remuneration which he would have been entitled to draw upto the normal date of superannuation.
The sole question that fell therein for decision before this Court was whether a Government servant officiating in Class I or Class II service or post could be retired compulsorily by exercising the power under Rule 56(j)(i) after he has attained the age of 50 years.
The petitioner of this application under Article 32 of the Constitution is an engineer who was employed in the Central Public Works Department under the Ministry of Works and Housing in Government of India and was compulsorily retired by order dated 3.8.1976 with effect from 5.11.1976 made under Rule 56(j) of the Fundamental Rules.
We need not go into the semantic shapes, lexical niceties or linguis tic nuance but only go through the meaning and purpose of the provision.
Sd/ (V.R .
Even viewed closely and meticulously, the structure of the clause, namely, "if he is in Class I or Class II 637 service or post", emphasises the nature of the service or post vis a vis the Government servant concerned.
It has been represented to us by counsel for the petitioner that the similarly placed persons had gone before the Delhi High Court challenging the orders of compulsory retirement and the Delhi High Court relying upon Tahiliani 's case give them relief.
When a Government servant belonging to a Class I or Class II service or post on regular basis has to be retired compulsorily, Rule 56(j)(i) comes to the rescue of the Government.
Learned counsel for the petitioner does not dispute the position that a person who is in Class I or Class II service or post is in such service or post as covered by sub clause (i).
In the instant case, the petitioner was promoted as officiating Assistant Engineer which is a Class II post on 25.5.
By now both the petitioners would have retired from service and, therefore, they cannot be resorted in service.
On 3.7.1961, he was further promoted as officiating Executive Engineer in Class I service but on 4.9.1965, he was reverted to the post of Assistant Engineer in officiating position and was con tinuing in that post when he was compulsorily retired.
There is, however, no reasons why sub clause (i) should be confined to service or post held on substantive basis.
1954, and came to be confirmed as Section Officer by an order dated 8.10.1955.
But if he is only a temporary hand, he has no right to the post and can always be reverted to the post, if any, on which he has a lien.
They would, however, be entitled to salary and other service allowances payable to them from the date of compulsory retirement till the date of their normal superannuation.
But he would be entitled to pecuniary benefit of salary and allowances admissible under the rules.
The petitioner was born on 10.2.1922 and secured his first appointment as a Section Officer under the named employer on 22.10.1947.
When this was put to learned Additional Solicitor General he agreed that the Union of India will have no objection to treat the petitioner alike and would be prepared to give the same relief to the petitioner.
Similar is the position of an officiating hand.
If the officia tion is not brought to an end by reverting the Government servant to his substantive post before the power of compul sory retirement is exercised, the Government servant con cerned must be taken to be in Class I or Class II service or post at the relevant time and would come within the ambit of sub clause (i).
We have already indicated that sub clause (ii) did not apply to the facts of this case as the petitioner had not attained the age of 55 years by the date of the order.
