The respondent in that case by an amendment had taken the plea of protection under the Maharashtra Amendment Act 17 of 1973 on the ground that he was in occupation of the premises on 1st February, 1973 under a subsisting agreement for licence.
The respondent had filed a revision petition under section 115 of C.P.C. in the High Court.
This Court allowing the appeal held that in order to get the advantage of section 15A of the Bombay Rent Act, the occupant must be in occupation of the premises as a licensee as defined in section 5(4A) on the 1st of February, 1973.
Reviewing these decisions Denning, L.J. had observed at page 384 of the report (1) that to ascertain whether a document created a licence or lease, the substance of the document must be preferred to the form; (2) the real test was the intention of the parties whether they intended to create a lease or a licence; (3) if the document created an interest in the property, it is a lease; but if it only permitted another to make use of the property, of which the legal possession continued with the owner, it was a licence; and (4) if under the document a party got exclusive possession of the property, prima facie, he was considered to be a tenant; but circumstances might be established which negative the intention to create a lease.
To put precisely if an interest in immovable property entitling the transferee to enjoyment was created, it was a lease; if permission to use land without exclusive possession was alone granted, a licence was the legal result.
Mr. Nariman 's point was that the facts of the case were identical to the facts of the present case.
Restriction in the hours of work negates the case for a lease.
Thereafter the appellants had served a notice upon the respondent calling upon him to remove himself from the said premises.
We need not detain ourselves with the question of estoppel upon which very interesting arguments were advanced before us by Mr. Nariman is noted above.
In the light of the legal position and also the fact that the rent, light bill stood in the name of the respondent showed that there was no desire to create any lease by the document mentioned hereinbefore and the appellant regarded him as a mere licensee.
It further stipulated that the licensee shall pay to the licensor a monthly compensation of Rs.225 per month.
This Court in Venkatlal G. Pittie & Anr.
This is a salutary test.
In our opinion the background of the facts of this case and the background of the entire document negate the contention of the appellant that it was a lease and not a licence.
Our attention was drawn to several decisions but in the view we have taken we cannot say that the view taken by the High Court or the Court of Small Causes was incorrect.
The High Court allowed the revision on the ground that the licence was not put an end to by the appellants and that in any event by filing the application for eviction the appellant licensor had granted an implied licence to the respondent licensee to continue in possession till a decree of eviction was passed in his favour.
Ltd., ; and M/s. Beopar Sahayak (P) Ltd. & others vs Shri Vishwa Nath & 5 others, [1987] 2 scale 27, held that where it cannot be said that there was no error apparent on the face of the record, the error if any has to be discovered by long process of reasoning, and the High Court should not exercise jurisdiction under Article 227 of the Constitution.
The premises in question belongs to the Bombay City Weavers Cooperative Limited.
On those grounds it was contended that ejectment proceedings was liable to be rejected.
The respondent refused to do so.
The appeal fails and is dismissed.
The High Court disallowed the special civil application under Article 227 of the Constitution on 17th of November, 1980 and that is the judgment impugned in this appeal.
But in this case we had not been tempted.
Reliance was also placed on the observations of Krishna Iyer, J. in the decision of Qudrat Ullah vs Municipal Board, Bareilly, ; where at page 533 of the report Krishna Iyer, J. Observed that there is no simple litmus test to distinguish a lease as defined in section 105, from licence as defined in section 52 of the Easements Act, but the character of the transaction turns on the operative intent of the parties.
