But it follows naturally that equal pay for unequal work will be a negation of that right." And said: "The same amount of physical work may entail different quality of work, some more sensitive.
The differentiation so made in the same cadre will not amount to discrimination.
Rule 16 provides that the posts of Bench Secretaries Grade I shall be filled up by promotion from amongst permanent Bench Secretaries Grade II.
" It will be seen that the Pay Commission refused to equate Bench Secretaries with Section Officers in view of their differential duties.
article l4 permits reasonable classification founded on different basis.
Rule 8(E) provides procedure for appointment of Bench Secretaries Grade II.
They have to exercise control over their subordinate.
In the present case, it is true that at one time, Bench Secretaries were paid more emoluments than Section Officers.
No attempt was made to sustain the scales of pay for the post of Professor on the doctrine of classification because the classification of existing incum bents as being distinct and separate from newly recruited hand with flimsy change in essential qualification would be wholly irrational and arbitrary.
Permanent Upper Division Assistants and permanent Lower Division Assistants having not less than ten years service are made eligible for selection.
It is now well established that the classification can be based on some qualities or characteristics of persons grouped together and not in others who are left out.
It has a rational nexus with the object thereof.
It is by selection through competitive examination to be conducted by appointing authority.
All Bench Secretaries in the High Court of Allahabad are undisputedly having same duties.
To hold otherwise, it would be detrimental to the interest of the service itself.
The minimum pay scales of the Bench Secretaries is comparatively higher than the pay scale of Upper Division Assistants though they are appointed through a competitive examination.
They have claimed that their duties are equivalent to Private Secretaries of Hon 'ble Judges and have demanded the same pay scale which is given to Private Secretaries and the Section Officers.
The court should not try to tinker with such equivalence unless it is shown that it was made with extraneous consideration.
Keeping in view the fact that vacancies in Upper Division/Lower Division Assistants are filled up by promotion from Routine Grade Assistants, it is clear that this is a second promotion for those who come directly from Lower Division Assistants and a third promotion for those who are promoted first to Upper Division Assistant and then a Bench Secretary.
Rs. 150 350 was recommended for Bench Secretaries as against Rs.200 400 for Section Officers.
The entitlement to these higher pay scales depends upon seniority cum merit or merit cum seniority.
The Successive Pay Commissions and even Pay Rationalisation Committee, however, found no support to their superior claim.
It is limited to only Upper Division Lower Division Assistants of the High Court.
He challenged that discrimination in this Court as being violative of the right to have equal pay for equal work.
" They are rooted in social justice.
Promotion from one post to another is associated with advancing to a higher office, climbing one more ladder in service career.
This Court accepted the contention and observed (page 163): "The case in hand is a glaring example of discriminat tory treatment accorded to old, experienced and highly qualified hands with an evil eye and unequal hand and the guarantee of equality in all its pervasive character must enable this Court to remove discrimination and to restore fair play in action.
It does not just depend upon either the nature of work or volume of work done by Bench Secre taries.
The Government order by which the classification was done itself provided that duty and responsibility of Bench Secretary of Grade II be the same as of Grade I shall be seniority.
There is senior time scale in Indian Administrative Service.
The work of the Bench Secretary is of a great importance.
It is against this background that the principle of "equal pay for equal work has to be construed in the first place.
When Bench Secretaries Grade II acquire experience and also display more merit, they are appointed as Bench Secretaries Grade I.
The answer to the question depends upon several factors.
Section Officers have to bear more responsibilities in their Sections.
Functions may be the same but the responsibilities make a difference.
They have to prepare lengthy original notes in complicated matters.
The effect of the order was that those who were senior entered into an altogether different Grade.
Therefore, the responsibilities of the two posts cannot be said to be equal.
This article and other like provisions in the Directive Principles are "conscience of our Constitution.
The State Government accepted the recommendations.
In service matters, merit or experience could be the proper basis for classification to promote efficiency in administration.
vs UOI, WP No. 1230 of 1987 disposed of dt. 10.2.1988; Jaipal and Ors.
O. Chinnappa Reddy, J. observed that the classification of officers into two grades with different scales of pay based either on academic qualification or experience on length of service is sustainable.
As the name itself suggests, the Committee was required to examine and remove anomalies in the recommendations of Pay Commission.
No other basic or qualification or test or be it was laid down.
It makes no difference whether they are appointed in sanctioned posts or not.
The Committee submitted a detailed report, in which Bench Secretaries became casualties.
Rule 18 deals with method of selection for all promotional posts.
The problem about equal pay cannot always be translated into a mathematical formula.
It is said that it would be violative of the Constitutional right of "equal pay for equal work".
It is pertinent to all such cases.
We have received a representation stating that the Bench Secretaries play a very important role in smooth running of the proceedings of the Court.
It cannot be denied that the quality of work performed by persons of longer experience is superior than the work of newcomers.
The Rules were framed in exercise of the powers conferred by Article 229(2) of the Constitution and brought into force from July 13,1976.
