An appreciation of the evidence, as done in the preceding pages, would sh ow that the applicant had entered the name of Shri Ashok Kum ar in the pay roll for May 1969 and so far as other eviden ce against him is concerned, it is mostly of a circumstanti al nature.
The other two persons were let off wi th minor punishments of withholding two or three future incr e ments in their pay scales.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K. JAGANNATHA SHETTY, J.
If the penal ty impugned is apparently unreasonable or uncalled for, havi ng regard to the nature of the criminal charge, the Tribun al may step in to render substantial justice.
access to the records which 24 were fabricated at the relevant time the Inquiry Officer h ad come to the conclusion that the applicant was the mast er mind behind the scheme to defraud the Project.
The evidence against him is circumstantial in as much as the pay roll was under his custody and he cou ld have access to the identity cards.
The law already declared by this Court, which we reiterate, makes it clear that t he Tribunals have no such discretion or power.
The standard of proof required is that of preponderance of probability and not proof beyond reasonable doubt.
The Tribunal m ay remit the matter to the competent authority for reconsider a tion or by itself substitute one of the penalties provid ed under clause (a).
" It was also observed that there was no denial of a reasonable opportunity for the respondent to set up prop er defence.
If the penalty can lawfully be imposed and is imposed on the proved misconduct, the Tribunal has no pow er to substitute its own discretion for that of the authorit y.
Under these circu m stances, the evidence that the applicant was the only mast er mind who sought to defraud the project of the funds cann ot be termed to be direct.
The Act thus excludes the jurisdiction, power and a u thority of all Courts except the Supreme Court and confe rs the same on the Tribunal in relation to recruitment a nd service matters.
Mr. Ashri, learned counsel for t he respondent, however, justified the discretion exercised by the Tribunal in awarding the lesser punishment.
Such a finding is vitiated because of the use of inadmissible material a nd thereby an issue of law arises.
Section 27 provides for execution of orders.
The civil appeal, by speci al leave, and the connected SLP raise an important issue as to the power of the Central Administration Tribun al ("Tribunal") to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded by the competent authority to a Government servant in discipl i nary proceedings.
" This proposition in Dhirajlal 's case was explained a nd the statement of law in Bidyabhushan 's case was affirmed in State of Maharashtra vs B.K. Takkamore & Ors., ; It was case of supersession of the Corporation.
Short factual background is this: Parmanand Respondent in the appeal was a Time Keeper in Beas Sutlej Link Project, Sundernagar.
The appellant was a low paid class IV Governme nt servant.
Accordingly, two incremen ts with future effect, of the appellant were ordered to be withheld.
If t he inference that Nand Kumar was a person likely to have off i cial dealings, with the respondent was one which reasonab le person would draw from the proved facts of the case, t he High Court cannot sit as a court of appeal over a decisi on based on it.
This Court, aft er considering the matter was of opinion that the appella nt therein was not offered a reasonable opportunity to defe nd himself and accordingly the enquiry and consequential ord er of 34 removal from service were found to be bad.
The reason is that whereas in cases where t he decision is based on subjective satisfaction if some of t he reasons turn out to be irrelevant or invalid, it would be impossible for a superior court to find out which of t he reasons, relevant or irrelevant, valid or invalid, h ad brought about such satisfaction.
A government servant who is aggriev ed by the penalty imposed can agitate in appeal, revision or review, as the case may be, that the penalty was too seve re or excessive and not warranted by the facts and circu m stances of the case.
There should be only one Tribunal for t he Union of India and one for each State or for two or mo re States put together.
The principle that if some of the reasons relied on by a Tribunal for its conclusion tu rn out to be extraneous or otherwise unsustainable, its dec i sion would be vitiated, applies to cases in which the co n clusion is arived at not on assessment of objective sati s faction.
Section 15 deals with the simil ar power and authority of the State Administrative Tribuna l. Section 16 refers to the powers of a Joint Administrati ve Tribunal.
The re the Chief Settlement Commissioner cancelled the allotment of land made to a person but the High Court allowed the wr it petition quashing the order of the Chief Settlement Commi s sioner and directing him to proceed to decide the case on merits.
There is no direct or expert evidence that it was he who had marked the attendance of Shri Ashok Kumar in the p ay roll for May 1969 or that it was he who had initiated t he identity card.
He also prepared a bogus identity card in the name of the abo ve Shri Ashok Kumar and initiated it below the signatures of issuing officer and this identity card Was used by Sh ri Suraj Singh, Cleaner (Token No. 210 K), Boggi Tunnelli ng Division, at the time of attempting to receive the pay of Shri Ashok Kumar from the Cashier.
That negligence, if any, caused no loss to the Government, for, the man w ho resorted unauthorised felling of trees, had compensated t he Department.
