If the classification has reasonable nexus with the objective sought to be achieved, efficiency in the administration, the State would be justified in prescribing different pay scales.
They are termed as daily rated employees.
They demand payment in terms paid to their counterparts in regular services.
In the first place, even assum ing that the petitioners ' jobs are comparable with the counterparts in the government service, the petitioners cannot enforce the right to "equal pay for equal work".
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, they are seeking enforcement of their fundamental right to have "equal pay for equal work".
In the light of the aforesaid principles, we may now consider whether the equality claims of the petitioners could be allowed.
We have carefully perused the material on record and gave our anxious consideration to the question urged.
They also seek regularisation of their services with the benefits of pen sion, gratuity etc.
But the Court held that the principle of equal pay for equal work cannot be invoked invariably in every kind of service particularly in the area of professional services.
Nonetheless, for the purpose of preserv ing and promoting traditional arts and crafts, the Corpora tion has been kept alive.
The Court found that the petitioner therein performed the same func 666 tions and duties as other drivers in the service of Delhi Administration.
Apart from that, the Court has expressly observed that the higher pay scale to avoid stagnation or resultant frustration for lack of promotional avenues may also be allowed.
Article 14 permits reasonable classification rounded on rational basis.
There the petitioner was a "Hearing Therapist" in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.
Apart from giving training, the Corporation also ensures marketing support to the artisans and craftsmen by purchasing their products at remunerative prices and sell them through the marketing network of the Corporation.
The principle of "equal pay for equal work" is not one of the fundamental rights expressly guaranteed by our Constitution.
The petitioners are treated as industrial workmen and .are given all benefits due to them under the various labour legislations.
The discrimination complained of must be within the same estab lishment owned by the same management.
They want the same pay of the regular employees as carpenters or in the alternative, the minimum wages prescribed by the Deputy Commissioner for like categories of workmen.
The Government has not fixed the mini mum wages payable to the petitioners engaged in the Corpora tion or other like industries, but the Corporation has adopted the minimum wages payable for similar work in the construction industry.
The Corporation has clearly stated that there are no regular employees of the petitioners ' categories in its establishment and, as such, the question of payment to the petitioners, the pay admissible to regular employees does not arise.
His case was based on the allegations that he was discharging same duties and performing similar functions as "Senior Speech Therapist", "Senior Physiotherapist", "Senior Occupa tional Therapist", "Audiologist" and "Speech Pathologist".
They cannot claim wages payable to their counterparts in government service.
It is important to emphasize that equal pay for equal work is a concomitant of Article 14 of the Constitution.
