Section 2(f) of the Act provides the definition of the term "manufacture".
According to the learned Attorney General, the fact that 90% of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10% represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore, learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression "packing" as the wrapper, container, bobbin, pirn, spool, reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped, contained or wound.
Therefore, it was held that the "value" of the excisable article has to be computed with reference to the price charged by the manufacturer, the computation being made in accordance with the terms of section 4.
Collector.
Section 3 of the Act provides that there shall be levied and collected in such manner as maybe pre scribed duties of excise on all excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India. "Excisable goods", under section 2(d) of the Act, means goods specified in the Schedule to the as being subject to duty of excise and includes salt.
If on the other hand, the manufacturer asks the customer to bring his own container and does not charge anything therefore then the cost (or value) of the packing cannot be "notionally" added to, or subtracted from, the price at which the goods have been sold by the manufacturer.
The use of the expression "cost" could not obviously be by way of reference to packing for which the cost is incurred by the buyer.
On 2nd July, 1983, a notice in respect of a consignment was issued to show cause as to why value of the drums should not be included in the value of the goods.
The manufac ture of the goods was complete before these were placed in drums.
Excise duty, as has been reiterated and explained, is a duty on the act of manufacture.
These appeals under Section 35L(b) of the Central Excises & Salt Act, 1944 (hereinafter called 'the 979 Act ') are against the order Nos.
It is, therefore, necessary to bear in mind that a process which is ancillary or incidental to the completion of the manufactured product, that is to say, to make the manufacture complete would be "manufacture".
One has to bear in mind the scheme of clause (d) of section 4(4) of the Act.
In 10% of the sales, the "vehicle" of removal was drums.
Price and sale are related concepts and price has a definite connotation.
In order to appreciate the controversy in this case, it is necessary to refer to the relevant provisions.
The Tribunal, therefore, accepted the revenue 's contention and restored the order of the Asst.
In the facts and the circumstances, however, there will be no order as to costs.
Hence, there was no logic or reason for not excluding the value of packing material supplied by the buyer himself which is of durable nature and is return able by the assessee to the buyer.
For articles to be goods, these must be known in the market as such and these must be capable of being sold or being sold in the market as such.
Therefore, the learned Attorney General submitted, the mere fact that the assessee in C.A. No. 4339 of 1986 sold only 10% of the excisable goods to its buyer where drums were supplied by the buyers themselves and that 90% of the sales were through tankers belonging to the customers would not in any manner affect the question or determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods inasmuch as the 10% of its sales to whole sale buyers were in drums supplied by the buyers at the time of removal.
See in this connection, the observations of this Court at p. 388 F & G of the report.
Similarly, Karnataka High Court in Alembic Glass Industries vs Union of India & Ors., (supra) held that the term "value" defined in section 4(4)(d)(i) provides for exclusion of cost of packing materi al which was of durable nature and was returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
These were not necessary, it was emphasised by the majority of the Judges, for selling the cigarettes in the wholesale market at the factory gate.
He pointed out though "manufacture" is the taxable event, the measure of the levy need not be and is not to be restricted to the cost of 994 manufacture.
365 367 of the Report.
The revenue 's case was that the no tional value of deposit was rental and hence should be included in computing the assessable value.
In the said price lists, which were duly approved by the Asstt.
If the manufacturer supplies the drums and charges the customers separately therefore, then, under section 4(4)(d)(i), the cost of the drums to the buyer has to be added to the price except where the packing is of durable nature and is to be returned to the manufacturer.
See the observations of this Court in Union of India vs Delhi Cloth & General Mills Ltd., [1963] Supp. 1 SCR 586; South Bihar Sugar Mills Ltd., etc.
In that case, the learned Attorney General contended the only question which arose was whether the rental charges received by the assessee for the gas cylinders lent by it to its customers could be included in the assessable value and whether inter est earned on deposits made by the customers for the securi ty of the cylinders supplied by the assessee could also be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods.
Aggrieved therefrom, the appellant has come up in these appeals to this Court.
If they are generally sold in the wholesale market at the factory gate in a certain packed condition, whatever may be the reason for such packing, the cost of such packing would be includible in the value of the goods for assessment to excise duty.
In this connection, it may be rele vant to mention that in C.A. 4339 41/86, in respect of which show notice was issued as to why value of drums should not be included in the assessable value of fusel oil and Styrene Monomer, 90% of Styrene Mono 982 mer had been sold directly in tanks and only 10% of Styrene Monomer had been sold in drums and the show cause notice on 20th October, 1983 had been issued relating to clearance of fusel oil in 45 drums but the said drums had been supplied by the buyer.
In the alternative, he contended that atleast so far as styrene monomer sales are concerned, the cost of drums cannot enter into the picture.
Reliance may be placed to the observations of this Court at pp.
There was no evidence that there was any necessity of pack ing or putting these in drums prior to their sale.
K. Parasaran, Attorney General, A.K. Ganguli, and P. Parmeshwaran for the Respondents.
The "cost of such packing" referred in section 4(4)(d)(i) does not in clude within its ambit the cost of packing not incurred by the manufacturer when the packing is supplied by the buyer and not the manufacturer.
In my opinion, however, the correct position must be found out bearing in mind the essential nature of excise duty.
The provisions of these two sections must be judged in the light of the principles laid down by this Court in Union of India vs Bombay Tyre International, (supra).
It is then and then only that manufacture takes place attracting duty.
He answered that it is not.
In the premises, on 992 the facts of this case, it is clear that the goods were not sold in drums generally in the course of the wholesale trade.
A.N. Sen, J., who agreed with Pathak, J., observed that on a proper construction of section 4(4)(d)(i), it was clear that any secondary packing done for the purpose of facilitating transport and smooth transit of the goods to be delivered to the buyer in the wholesale trade could not be included in the value for the purpose of assessment of excise duty.
There was evidence that 90% of the goods were deliv ered at the time of removal without being put in drums.
Another show cause notice as to why value of the drums should not be included in the assessable value of the goods, was issued to the appellant on the 5th April, 1983 pertaining to Gate Pass No. 773 whereunder the appellant had cleared 2.4 KI of fusel oil in drums supplied by the buyer.
Chief Justice Bhag wati, on the other hand, held that corrugated fibreboard containers in which the cigarettes were contained fell within the definition of 'packing ' in the Explanation to section 4(4)(d)(i) and if these formed part of the packing in which the goods were packed when delivered at the time of removal, then under section 4(4)(d)(i) read with the Expla nation, the cost of such corrugated fibreboard containers would be liable to be included in the value of cigarettes.
For the purposes of this sub clause, the amount of the duty of excise payable on any excisable goods shall be the sum total of (a) the effective duty of excise payable on such goods under this Act; and (b) the aggregate of the effective duties of excise payable under other Central Acts, if any, providing for the levy of duties of excise on such goods , and the effective duty of excise on such goods under each Act referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) shall be, (i) in a case where a notification or order providing for any exemption (not being an exemption for giving credit with respect to, for reduction or duty of excise under such Act on such goods equal to, any duty of excise under such Act, or the additional duty under Section 3 of the (51 of 1975), already paid] on the raw material or component parts used in the production or manufacture of such goods) from the duty of excise under such Act is for the time being in force, the duty of excise computed with refer ence to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods as reduced so as to give full and complete effect to such exemption; and (ii) in any other case, the duty of excise computed with reference to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods.
In the case of styrene monomer, the finding is that the supply is in tankers to the extent of 90% and only 10% of the sales were made in drums.
This Court reiterated that section 4 of the Act provides the measure by reference to which the charge is to be levied.
" The expression "place of removal" has been defined under section 4(4)(b) of the Act to mean a factory or any other place or premises of production or manufacture of the excisable goods; or a warehouse or any other place or prem ises wherein the excisable goods have been permitted to be deposited without payment of duty, from where such goods are removed.
