408 G.A. Shah, M.N. Shroff, K.M.M. Khan and T.U. Mehta for the Respondents.
It is equally clear that while levying a tax the authority con cerned is entitled to grant concessions and exemptions wherever necessary having regard to the purpose of the Act, the levy of royalty is incidental to the regulation and development of minerals.
Under rule 18 of the Rules the period of lease in the case of the minor minerals can be for a much longer period, it can be upto 10 years in respect of minor minerals except in the case of ordinary sand, Kankar, Mur ram, Gravel and in the case of Kankar, Murram and gravel a lease can be granted upto three years, and the area or land covered by a mining lease is governed by rule 15 which says that no quarry lease shall be granted for an area exceeding 10 hectares in case of specified minor mineral and 20 hec tares in the case of other minerals.
Section 14 of the Act provides that sections 5 to 13 (inclusive) shall not apply to quarry leases, mining leases or other mineral concessions in respect of minor minerals.
In the instant case the levy is made under a law made by the Central Gov ernment.
It is only in the case of such people who are described in the Rules and who invariably belong to the weaker sections of society the concession is shown under rule 21, whereas the mining lease may be given to persons mentioned in rule 9.
We have taken this view after going through the observations made by this Court in Trivedi 's case (supra) at page 544 where this Court has observed that where a statute confers discretion ary powers upon the executive or an administrative authori ty, the validity or constitutionality of such power cannot be judged on the assumption that the executive or such authority will act in an arbitrary manner in the exercise of the discretion conferred upon it.
by notification in the Official Gazette, declare to be a minor mineral.
That decision was rendered on March 5, 1986.
Re cently a Constitution Bench of this Court has held in The India Cement Ltd. etc.
The fact that section 15 of the Act does no authorise the State Government to show such concession while promulgating the Rules which are in the nature of subordi nate legislation is also of no consequence.
It is obvious that the petitioners are lessees who are exploiting the mining areas for purposes of business and that the royalty in question is ultimately passed on to the consumers.
409 In order to understand the case of the petitioners it is necessary to set out some other provisions of law governing the case.
Originally all lessees had to pay a minimum dead rent in respect of the area covered by a minor mineral lease issued in respect of any minor mineral or the royalty prescribed in respect of quantity of minor minerals owned by him, which ever was higher.
During the pendency of the said petitions in the High Court the impugned notification was issued increasing the royalty payable in respect of Black Trap and Hard Murrum from Rs.4 to Rs.7.
vs State of Gujarat and Ors.
Whoever is given an exclusive right to exploit a mine will have to pay some amount by way of return to the Govern ment of India as authorised by entry 50 of List II of the 7th Schedule to the Constitution.
