Under the said Act, he pointed out, a petition for fixation of fair rent under section 4 could be filed by either a landlord or a tenant: (Raval & Co. vs Rarnachandran, ; This is 554 what the LIC purported to do when it filed H.R.C. Nos. 3310 and 33 11/64.
In the latter case it is necessary to see if the statute creates a special right 0r a liability and provides for the determination of the right or liability and further lays down that all questions about the said right and liability shall be determined by the tribunals so constituted, and whether remedies normally associated with actions in Civil Courts are prescribed by the said statute or not.
In that petition the tenant disputed the title of the Corporation in respect of the buildings.
Such a dispute is a matter well within the jurisdiction of a civil court.
The respondents denied that the L.I.C. was the landlord or they the tenants in respect of the property.
" Shri Iyer submits that the appellants ' case here is on a stronger footing than in the two decisions cited above because here, in the earlier proceedings before the Rent controller and the Court of Small Causes, a specific point had been taken that the tenant was only a tenant of the land and not of the premises (which belonged to him) and that this contention had been specifically over ruled by the appellate court after a consideration of the relevant mate rial.
When the matter came back to the Court of Small Causes, the learned Judge, in his order dated 9.4.69, went into the issue at length and came to the conclusion that the superstructure belonged to Indian Automobiles and had not been conveyed to the L.I.C He held, therefore, that the claim by India Automobiles in the eviction petition of title to the superstructure would amount to a denial of title but that the denial was bona fide.
Again, in Manibhai Hathibhai vs Arbuthnot, AIR 1947 Bom.
The Appellate Bench confirmed the decree in respect of item No. 2 subject to certain modifications which are not here relevant.
The present appeal, by Special Leave granted on 3.7.
That being so, if the Rent Controller did not decide that question properly, the matter would have to be raised in appeal to the Court of Small Causes and would give this Court no jurisdiction to entertain a suit by the defeated party; for such a suit would be barred by section 12(4) of the Act.
Where there is no express exclusion the examination of the remedies and the scheme of the particular Act to find out the intendment becomes necessary and the result of the inquiry may be decisive.
If the tribunal decided it wrongly, there is an appeal provided against its decision.
He, therefore, allowed the appeal and set aside the order of eviction passed against the tenants.
The fair rent fixed by the Rent Controller at Rs.994 p.m. was upheld.
1947 relating to Door No. 3 (Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint) covered an area of 8700 sq.
But, he submitted, even the decision of a Tribunal or a Court of limited jurisdiction cannot be called in question so long as it acts within the scope of the jurisdiction conferred on it by the relevant statutes.
He has also no doubt to satisfy himself as to the extent of the premises qua which the relationship of landlord and tenant exists and in respect of which rent is receivable or payable.
It was submitted that it was necessary to find out whether the Court of Small Causes was competent to try the two earlier 'suits and decide the issues arising therein.
In the circumstances, the Court of Small Causes, in the appeals now being referred to (H.RA.
We, therefore, answer the first question posed by us in the affirmative.
In the appeal the appellate court set aside the order of eviction on the ground that there was no denial of title prior to the insti tution of the petition.
He has no doubt to ensure that the person applying for the fair rent is the tenant or the landlord.
The amount has to be recovered by the landlord only by recourse to a civil court.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20.11.1968.
The decision in this appeal will, therefore, be of great moment for the L.I .C.
The order of the Rent Controller in respect of item 2 was also upheld.
In our view, the conclusion of the learned Single Judge that the lease exhibit P 1, executed by the co owners of the property in favour of one of them, was invalid, was erroneous.
The peti tion for fixation of fair rent was dismissed by the learned First Additional Rent Controller on the ground that the lease has been taken under two separate deeds and that a single petition was not maintainable.
It held that there was a valid tease between the quondam owners and the tenants under Exts.
The rent for the premises was Rs. 150 per month.
But an affirmative answer to either question will necessitate an answer to the other.
For deciding these issues, he may have no doubt also to consider the oral and documentary evidence adduced by the parties.
vs Dossibai N.B. Jeejeebhoy, ; , the appellant had ob tained lease of an open land for construction of buildings.
This gives an indication that the determination of the relationship that gives rise to the application is also not conclusive.
This was on 19th April, 1967.
But no such plea was taken before it with the result that the court discussed the matter and arrived at a decision.
In deciding whether the decision constitutes res judicata or not, we are not entitled to go into the correctness of that decision.
Mount Road belongs to the Corporation.
The order of the Rent Controller was dated 9.3.
He also conceded that there may be a difference in principle between a civil court and a court of limited jurisdiction.
This was a property comprising of an area of 4 grounds and 151 square feet with certain buildings thereon.
It is unnecessary to refer in detail to this case except to set out a passage from pages 682 3 where Hidayatullah, C.J., speaking for the Constitution Bench, reviewed all earlier cases on the sub ject and enunciated the principles emerging therefrom, of which the following are relevant here: "The result of this inquiry into the diverse views expressed in this Court may be stated as follows,: (1) Where the statute gives a finality to the orders of the special tribunals, the Civil Courts ' jurisdic tion must be held to be excluded if there is adequate remedy to do what the Civil Courts would normally do in a suit.
Later on, the plaintiffs filed suits against the tenants in possession of holdings in the village for an injunction restraining them from removing the paddy heaps standing on the suit lands until a due division was made of the crop and until the rent in kind payable to the plaintiffs was paid by the tenants.
It would follow from this, therefore, that if notice to quit was necessary it would be merely one of the issues to be decided by the Rent Controller and would not in any way affect his jurisdiction to entertain the applica tion.
Reliance was also placed on section 92 of the Indian Evidence Act.
The correctness of that finding may be questioned in any subsequent legal proceeding in the ordinary courts of the land where the question might arise for decision.
After refer ring to various decisions cited on behalf of the parties, the Court observed: 567 "It seems to us that when a finding as to title to immovable property is rendered by a Court of Small Causes res judicata cannot be pleaded as a bar in a subsequent regular civil suit for the determination or enforcement of any right or interest in immovable property.
The High Court held that the sale deed and rent note were sham documents, that the decrees of the Court of Small Causes did not operate as res judicata and that section 92 of the Indian Evidence Act did not preclude the respondent from establishing the true nature of the transac tion.
These documents were executed on January 7, 1953, but the respondent contin ued in the possession of the house property throughout.
He submitted that if the tenants had filed a suit for declaration that the order passed in the earlier proceedings as a nullity that would have been bound to fail.
But even these rules are subject to the qualification that, if the jurisdiction of the Court depends upon the ascertainment of facts and the Court, upon the facts found, holds that it has jurisdiction, then the decree of that Court cannot be ignored or set aside in collateral proceedings.
The plaintiff thereupon filed a suit for a declaration of as title and right to continue in possession and enjoyment of the suit land subject to payment of ryot wari or other cess to be imposed by Government without any interference from the Government.
(2) Where there is an express bar of the jurisdic tion of the court, an examination of the scheme of the particular Act to find the adequacy or the sufficiency of the provided may be relevant but is not decisive to sustain the jurisdiction of the civil court.
Further interest at the rate of 12% thereon from date of plaint to the date of decree and at 6% thereafter till the date of realisation was also claimed.
