He was employed in Mandya Sugar Company Distillery.
section K. Venkataranga Iyengar and K. Keshava Iyengar, for the appellant.
I am at full liberty to make dispositions hereby according to my desire ".
It would be difficult to deduce any principle from this decision and to seek to apply it to other cases without reference to their facts.
Shama Charn, the propounder of the will, claimed to be the adopted son of the testator.
On appeal, by a majority ' decision the order of the trial court was reversed.
On the morning of the day when the will was executed the witness was told by Lakshmamma that she would execute a power of attorney though the witness had not asked for it.
Out of the 15 acres of land included in item 4, the bequest in regard to 9 acres is burdened with a charge in favour of certain legacies and charities mentioned in the will.
Then two nurses were called in to witness its due execution.
The instructions were given on June 1 and it was in the evening of June 4 that the will was brought to the testator for execution.
She further alleged that the will set up by the appellant was not genuine or valid and that at the material time Lakshmamma was not in a sound and disposing state of mind.
Take for instance the statement in the will that the testatrix had advanced Rs. 3,000 to her son to enable him to purchase a house at Mysore.
In fact the judgment of the High Court appears to indicate that The High Court was inclined to hold that the testatrix may not have been in a sound and disposing state of mind at the material time.
Indeed it would not be unjust to say that the preamble purports to meet by anticipation the main objections which were likely to be raised to the competence of Lakshmamma to make a will in regard to the properties covered by it.
In this case, the evidence about the instructions given by the testator was very clear; and there was not the slightest reason for disbelieving the statement of Gooneratne that he had drawn the will faithfully in accordance with the details of instructions given to him.
It is common ground that Mandya where the testatrix was lying ill is a place where the assistance of local lawyers would have been easily available; and in ordinary course the testatrix would have talked to Kalbagal and the appellant and they would have secured the assistance of the lawyers for drafting the will; but that is not what the appellant did.
Having disposed of his properties for the benefit of the said children Narayanan considered that since he was the only son of the testatrix her share of the property was sufficient for the maintenance of himself and his wife and so he had no worry on that account.
