This led to the amendment of section 9(1) by Act 3 of 1983.
It said: "According to section 5(1) of the , a sale or purchase of goods can qualify as a sale in the course of export of the goods out of the territory of India only if the sale or purchase has occasioned such export or is by a transfer of documents of title to the goods after gods have crossed the customs frontiers of India.
If section 9 is left out, he says, the lan guage of section 6 (as amended) which brings to charge all pur chases and sales in the State would be attracted and so the impugned taxation of the purchases would be in order.
The exclusion of milk was decided to be dropped and so all that this amendment did was to roll both clauses (b) and (bb) into one clause, reading thus: "4.
The proviso to clause (a) was: "Provided that a dealer registered under this Act, shall also be entitled to purchase barley, without payment of sales tax on the authority of his certificate of registra tion, on furnishing to the selling registered dealer, a declaration referred to above, for sale by him in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of section 5 of the ." and that to clause (b) read: "Provided that a dealer registered under this Act, shall also be entitled to purchase, without payment of sales tax, on the authority of his certificate of registration, goods mentioned in clause (b) above, on furnishing to the selling registered dealer a declaration referred to above, for use by him in the manufacture, in the State, of scientific goods and guar gum for the purpose of sale by him in the course of export outside the territory of India within the meaning of sub section (3) of section 5 of the ." It also inserted, with retrospective effect from 1.4.76, the following sub section. "(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in form S.T. 15 or the certificate of registration issued under this Act or the Rules made thereunder, no dealer shall be entitled to claim the right envisaged in sub section (1) so renumbered, for the period from the first day of April, 1976, to the third day of September, 1979 in contravention of the provisions of sub section (1) so renumbered." The Act also contained a section (section 8) validating the notification issued under section 9 read with section 15 and also validating all levy, assessment and collection of taxes under section 9 notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court or other authority.
Nevertheless, we proceed to consider this contention, as Sri Gupta says he can support the as sessments, alternatively, under section 6 of the Act, without any aid from section 9 at all.
The goods which have been sold by the assessee must have been delivered to the dealer in pursuance of the sale either within the State or outside the State in India.
This contention which really seems to be unanswerable appears to have been missed at the stage of the High Court but this contention is purely one of law and merits consideration.
The State levied a purchase tax on the raw materials u/s 9(1).
But section 14 of 356 this Act (which is a validation section on the same lines as those contained in the earlier amendment Acts) has been referred to in the course of the arguments before us and can be usefully extracted.
In that case the appellant 's goods were exported out of India.
These provisions read thus.
The point made by him was this.
In either event, it would be a sale covered by the exceptions in section 9(1).
According to the Export Control Orders, exports of certain goods can be made only by specified agencies such as the State Trading Corporation.
As a result of section 5(3), such penultimate sales become export sales falling beyond the purview and competence of State legislatures.
The second was to omit the words "sub section (1) of" at the end of clause (b).
Though section 6, as amended, purports to make dealers liable to pay tax on their sales as well as purchases, the actual charge of tax, under section 15, is only imposed on the sales and purchases that form part of his taxable turnover.
These provisoes make a marked contrast between sates failing under sub sections (1) and those falling under subsection (3) of section 5 of the C.S.T. Act.
(2) Every dealer to whom sub section (1) does not apply shall, subject to other provisions of this Act, be liable to pay tax under this Act on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum; Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B. Provided further that . .
If the purchaser dealer of the manufactured goods is in some other State and the goods have been moved out of Haryana in pursuance of that sale, they would be inter State sales.
The court held that the movement of goods outside India was occasioned by the contract between the S.T.C. and the foreign buyer and not by that between the appellant and the S.T.C.
(3) When we turn to section 27 next, we find two provisoes introduced in section 27(1)(iv)(a) by Act 44 of 1976, the same amending Act that introduced the extra words at the end of section 9(1)(a)(ii).
The State Government had issued a notification dated 19.7.74 (even before the 1976 amendment) clarifying the position with an answer to the question in the affirmative but this notification as well as the interpretation favoured by it were quashed by a decision of the High Court reported as Goodyear India Ltd. vs State, [1982] 53 STC 163.
Validation provision Act 1 of 1990 effected no amendments to section 24 or 27.
In any view of the matter, therefore, the assessee 's purchases of raw materials would not attract tax under section 9(1).
On these facts, it is claimed, the assessee is not liable to pay the purchase tax on the raw materials imposed under section 9(1) of the Act.
When is a sale or purchase of goods said to take place in the course of import or export (1) A sale or purchase of goods shah be deemed to take place in the course of the export of the goods out of the territory of India only if the sale or purchase either occasions such export or is effected by a transfer of documents of title to the goods after the goods have crossed the customs frontiers of India.
All these appeals and writ petitions raise a common question regarding the interpretation of s 9(1) of the Haryana Sales Tax Act, 1973 (hereinafter re ferred to as 'the Act ').
