The decision in Indo Afghan Chambers of Commerce vs Union of India, to which reference has been made, is also to the same effect.
241 (9) Additional licences issued to Export Houses/Trading Houses after 1.4.1988 on exports made during 1986 87 or earlier periods, will be `non transferable '.
In that event it is necessary that the differential treatment should be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes persons or things that are grouped together from others left out of the group and that differential must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute in question.
In para 217, it is prescribed that Export Trading House Certificates issued prior to April 1, 1988 would continue to be valid till the date of the expiry and the Export House Trading House can apply for fresh certificates, if they fulfil the eligibility conditions laid down in the policy and in cases where these Certificates are expiring on 31st March, 1988, and the applicants do not fulfil the eligibility conditions for recognition laid down under the revised Policy, recognition would be granted for one year only if they fulfil conditions for renewal of these Certificates as laid down in the Import Policy, 1985 88.
While the said appeal and the other writ petition (filed by the petitioners viz. writ petition No. 459 of 1988 herein) were pending in the Bombay High Court, this Court decided Civil Appeal No. 1423 of 1984, Union of India vs Rajnikant Brothers, and other connected matters by order dated April 18, 1985, wherein it was observed that there was no requirement of diversification of exports as a condition for the grant of Export House Certificates in theImport Policy for the year 1978 1979, and the authorities were directed to issue necessary Export Certificates for the year 1978 79.
The parties are left to bear their own costs.
The goods were not cleared by the customs authorities and the Collector of Customs imposed penalty and passed orders for confiscation of the goods and permitted the appellants to take delivery of good on payment of redemption fine.
On behalf of the petitioners it has been urged by Shri Salve that sub para (10) of para 218 of the Import & Export Policy 1988 1991 arbitrarily discriminates between Export Houses who were issued Additional licences prior to April, 1 1988, and Export Houses who were issued Additional licences on or after April 1, 1988 in as much as the Export Houses who were issued Additional licences prior to April 1, 1988, on the basis of exports made during 1986 87 or earlier periods have been denied the facilities which have been given to Export Houses who were issued Additional licences on or April 1, 1988, on the basis of exports made during the period subsequent to 1986 87.
(8) REP licences held by Export Houses/Trading Houses and already endorsed prior to 1.4. 1988 shall cease to be valid for import of any item which could be imported under Open General Licence under the Import Export Policy, 1985 88 but are no longer so in this Policy.
The Court never did and could not have said that canalised items could be imported in any manner not permitted nor it could have given a go bye to canalisation policy".
A close examination of the Import & Export Policy 1978 79 under which the petitioners have been granted the Additional licences and the Import & Export Policy 1988 91 shows that there is material difference between the conditions for grant of Additional licences under Import Policy 1978 79 and the conditions for grant of such licences under the Import Policy 1988 91 and it cannot be said that the petitioners who have been granted Additional licences under the Import & Export Policy 1978 79 and the Export & Import Policy 1988 91 are persons similarly circumstanced.
(P. 1000) In accordance with the directions given by the Bombay High Court the petitioners in writ petition No. 459 of 1988 herein were granted the Export House Certificate and were also granted an Additional licence dated November 16, 1987.
Since the basis for the grant of Additional licences which are entitled to this relaxation is different from the basis on which Additional licences were granted to the petitioners, the petitioners cannot claim the benefit of the same relaxation and assail the validity of sub para (10) of para 218 of the Import & Export Policy 1988 91.
In fact case Export Houses, like the petitioners, wanted to import to Dry Fruits under the Additional licences issued to them.
vs Collector of Central Excise and Customs, ; The appellants therein had been granted Additional Import licence in pursuance of this Court 's order dated April 18, 1985 in Rajnikant Brothers, case (supra) and had imported canalised items under the said licence.
This Court did not say that canalised items could be imported directly by the importers ignoring the canalisation process.
We are of the opinion that this Court did not say that canalisation could be ignored.
As indicated earlier, the licences issued to the petitioners were valid for a period of twelve months and the said period has expired during the pendency of these writ petitions.
(7) Additional licences issued to Export Houses/Trading Houses prior to 1.4.1988 will also be valid within their overall value, for import of raw materials, components, consumables and spares appearing in Appendix 6, List 8, Part A of this Policy.
vs Union of India & Ors.
The petitioner were no granted Additional licences on the basis of net foreign exchange earnings and they have secured the Additional licences on the basis of the f.o.b. value of the exports, without taking into account the value of the goods imported by them for achieving the exports.
It has been submitted that all Export houses who have been granted Additional licences constitute a single class and that there is no basis for classifying such Export Houses into two different categories on the basis of the date of issuance of the Additional Licences or on the basis of the period of the exports against which such licences have been issued and that such a classification has no connection whatsoever with the object sought to be achieved by the Import & Export Policy 1988 91.
In view of the special facts and circumstances of the case and specially having regard to the findings of the Appellate Tribunal that the appellants imported canalised items bona fide, this Court set aside the orders of the Collector and the Appellate Tribunal with regard to confiscation of goods and imposition of redemption fine without dealing with the submissions of learned counsel for the parties with regard to the interpretation and the effect of the earlier judgments of this Court in Raj Prakash Chemicals case (supra), Indo Afghan case (supra), Godrej Soap case (supra) and D. Navinchandra & Co. case (supra).
, ; , wherein this Court has observed: "Analysing the said order, it is apparent, (1) that the importation that was permissible was of goods which were not specifically banned, (2) such banning must be under the prevalent import policy at the time of import, and (3) whether items which were canalised or uncanalised would be imported in accordance with the relevant rules.
The writ petitions could not, however, be heard as per the aforesaid directions.
It was held that the Export Hoses could not import Dry Fruits in view of the said restriction placed in the Import Policy 1985 88.
