In the Report of the Santhanam Committee, certain portions relating to the judiciary which may throw light on the question before us are extracted as under: "SECTION 12 MISCELLANEOUS XXX XXX XXX 12.2 We did not consider the judici ary to be included in our terms of reference.
With this duty entrusted to the higher judiciary, it was natural to expect that the higher judiciary would not require any other agency to keep a watch over it and the internal discipline flowing from the moral sanction of the community itself will be sufficient to keep it on the right track without the re quirement of any external check which may have the tendency to interfere with the independence of the judiciary, a necessary concomitant of the proper exercise of its consti tutional obligation.
The assets are not drawn like nitrogen from the air.
Where no such relation ship exists in the absence of any vertical hierarchy and the holder of the public office is a constitutional functionary not subject to power of superintendence of any superior, Section 6 can have no application by virtue of the scheme engrafted therein.
The test of applicability of the existing law would be the legal sanc tion and justiciability of the proposed guidelines without which it is unworkable in the case of such persons.
Though we did not make any direct inquiries, we were informed by responsible persons including Vigilance and Special Police Establishment Officers that corruption exists in the lower ranks of the judiciary all over India and in some places it has spread to the higher ranks also.
Mr. Tulsi, learned Additional Solicitor General, on the other hand, emphasised on the role of the President in relation to removal of a Judge.
A trial without a valid sanction where one is necessary under section 6 has been held to be a trial without jurisdiction by the court.
Application of certain provi sions relating to Supreme Court to High Courts.
, (supra).
He pointed out that the order of the President for removal of a Judge is imperative under clause (4) of Article 124 of the Constitution and the President could be the proper authority under clause (c) of Section 6(1) of the Act.
This report is an intimation to the magis trate that upon investigation into a cognizable offence the investigating officer has been able to procure sufficient evidence for the Court to inquire into the offence and the necessary information is being sent to the Court.
That apart, if the Act was intended to apply to these con stitutional functionaries, it could not have been enacted leaving such gaping holes which are incapable of being plugged to present a comprehensive scheme for this purpose.
Unless that ad dress is presented to the President in the same session for such removal, the President is not empowered under the Constitution to make the order for removal of the Judge of the Supreme Court of India or of the Judge of the High Court on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
The author states.
It was in his own name and in the names of his wife Smt.
Counsel asserted that it is necessary to exclude the Judges of the Supreme Court and of 245 the High Courts from the operation of the Act.
He shall not insist on his right to sit on the Bench till he is cleared from the charge by a Court of competent jurisdiction.
The main culprit, the Judge shall escape on the argument of the appellant.
He should be taken into confidence if he is willing to cooperate.
In 1953 he was appointed as Assistant Government Pleader.
This is not difficult to achieve.
Adroitly, as observed in Swamy case (at 469) and reiterated in Wasudeo case (at 683), the prosecution cannot, in the very nature of things, be expect ed to know the affairs of a public servant found in posses sion of resources of property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
We consider that the society 's demand for honesty in a judge is exacting and absolute.
Such, then, put quite shortly, were the contentions addressed to us on the authority competent to grant sanction for prosecution of Judges of the superior judiciary.
If the misbehaviour or lack of integrity is glaringly self evident the ques tion of his continuance obviously cannot arise and in all probabilities will not engage the attention of the appointing authority, 292 for, the concerned Judge in such a situation would himself resign but when we talk of misbehaviour or lack of integrity on the part of an Additional Judge having come to the fore, by and large the instances are of sus pected misbehaviour and/or reported lack of integrity albeit based on opinions expressed in responsible and respectable quarters and the serious question that arises is whether in such cases the concerned Additional Judge should be dropped merely on opinion material or concrete facts and material in regard to allegations of misbehaviour and/or lack of integrity should be insisted upon? In my view since the question relates to the continuance of a high constitutional functionary like the Additional Judge of High Court it would be jeopardising his security and judicial inde pendence if action is taken on the basis or merely opinion material.
In these circumstances the judgment and order of the High Court dismissing the application under Secll.
A grant of sanction is not an idle formality but a solemn and sacrosanct act which removes the umbrella of protection of Government servants against frivolous prosecutions and the aforesaid requirements must therefore, be strictly complied with before any prosecution could be launched against public servants.
The purpose of grant of previ ous sanction before prosecuting a public servant i.e. a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court is to pro tect the Judge from unnecessary harassment and frivolous prosecution more particularly to save the Judge from the biased prosecution for giving judgment in a case which goes against the Government or its officers though 'based on good reasons and rule of law.
It is, therefore, time that all the constitutional functionaries involved in the process of appointment of superior Judges should be fully alive to the serious impli cations of their constitutional obligation and be zealous in its discharge in order to ensure that no doubtful appoint ment can be made even if sometime a good appointment does not go through.
The slightest hint of irregu larity or impropriety in the Court is a cause for great anxiety and alarm.
Indeed, they are not Judges if they allow themselves to be guided by the Government in the performance of their duties.
I agree with the conclusions arrived at by my learned brother Shetty, J. Yet considering the great impor tance of the questions involved in this matter, I deem it just and proper to consider the same and to express my own views.
It is implicit in such relationship that the servant may disobey the master 's order only at his peril.
This additional mode is by proving the extent of the pecuniary resources or property in the possession of the accused or any other person on his behalf and thereafter showing that this is disproportionate to his known sources of income.
The next question is whether a judge of the Supreme Court or a Judge of High Court including the Chief Justice of the High Court can be prosecuted for having committed the offence of criminal misconduct as referred to in clause (e) of sub section 1 of section 5 of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act, 1947.
The duty and credit for maintaining this high tradition is on the Government in existence when the 'Constitution and the statutory rules are framed, and I have written this to you confi dently hoping that you share my desire to safeguard the dignity and independence of the judiciary and will do the needful in the matter." Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel promptly replied to the Chief Justice of India saying 'your views will be very helpful to us in dealing with the subject. ' (Sardar Patel 's Correspondence, 1945 50, edited by Durga Das, Vol.
Thus, even for the procedure for investigation into any misbehaviour of a Judge as well as its proof, a law enacted by the Parliament under Article 124(5) is envisaged in the constitutional scheme.
It has to be acquired for which means are necessary.
On 20.2.1960, he was elevated to the Bench of the Madras High Court being appointed as a permanent Judge of that Court.
It does not appear to be so.
SHARMA, J. I have gone through the learned judgments of Mr. Justice Ray, Mr. Justice Shetty and Mr. Justice Verma.
However, it is open to the public servant to satisfactorily account for such disproportionality of assets.
K. JAGANNATHA SHETTY, J.
It is common ground that clauses (a) and (b) of Section 6(1) of the Act cannot cover the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court since they are not employed in connec tion with the affairs of the Union or State.
Even crimes which are of more general application, such as the taking of bribes, might well be sanctioned differently but possibly more severely when they refer" to judicial officers.
It was alleged in the First Information Report that taking into consideration the sources of income of the appellant as a Judge and Chief Justice of the High Court and the mode and style of his living with the probable expenses required during the period of his Judgeship/Chief Justiceship, it is reasonably be lieved that the appellant cannot satisfactorily account fox the possession of assets which are far disproportion he to his known source of income.
"A legislator or an administrator may be found guilty of corruption without apparently endangering the foundation of the State.
The (Act 7 0 71) provides power to the Court to take civil and criminal contempt proceedings.
vs State of Bihar, at 157; that the statutory requirement of the report under Section 173(2) would be complied 262 with if the various details prescribed therein are included in the report.
It is this princi ple of independence of the judiciary which we must keep in mind while interpreting the relevant provisions of the Constitution.
A Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by the warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Court in the State as the President may deem neces sary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of 65 years.
forwarded in custody under Sec. 170.
In fact, the report under Section 173(2) purports to be an opinion of the investigating officer that as far as he is concerned he has been able to procure sufficient material for the trial of the accused by the Court.
The report must be in the form prescribed by the State Government and stating therein (a) the names of the parties; (b) the nature of the information; (c) the names of the persons who appear to be acquainted with the circumstances of the case; (d) whether any offence appears to have been committed and, if so, by whom (e) whether the accused has been arrested; (f) whether he had been released on his bond and, if so, whether with or without sureties; and (g) whether he has been.
Can this anomaly and incongruity be attributed to a conscious act of the Parliament while enacting the , after the 1964 amendment in the Act.
Hence it is necessary that the Chief Justice of India is not kept out of the picture of any criminal case contemplated against a Judge.
The expression "public servant" used in the Preven tion of Corruption Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the 'Act ') is undoubtedly wide enough to denote every judge, including Judges of the High Court and the Supreme Court.
Nor even the sheer excess of assets over income, but the inability of the public servant in not being able to satisfactorily account for the excess.
It was thereafter that the Judges (Inquiry) Act, 1963 and the rules framed thereunder were enacted to provide for the investigation and proof of allegations of misbehaviour of a Judge in accord ance with Article 124(5) of the Constitution.
On 24 February 1976, the CBI registered a case against him with issuance of a First Information Report which was filed in one of the Courts at New Delhi.
Mr. Sibal next contended that as the appellant was not called upon to account for the property which was found in his possession, one of the essential ingredients under Section 5(1)(e) is not satisfied.
The expression 'authority competent to remove ' under Section 6(1)(c), unless construed in this manner, will foul with the construction made on Section 6 andits scheme in the Antulay decision.
The details of the offence are required to be proved to bring home the guilt to the accused at a later stage i.e. in the course of the trial of the case "adducing acceptable evidence.
The prior enactment and existence of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 at the time then clause (4) and (5) of Article 124 of the Constitution were framed, does indicate the constitutional scheme that a separate parliamentary law to deal with the investigation and proof of misbehaviour of a Judge was clearly contemplated by providing a special machinery for this category of constitu tional functionaries 295 notwithstanding the general law available and applicable to the public servants in general, which included the Preven tion of Corruption Act, 1947.
If the President is held to be the appropriate authority to grant the sanction without reference to the Parliament, he will be bound by the advice, he receives from the Council of Ministers.
It was only after the Chief Justice expressed his views that the appellant could be proceeded under the provi sions of the Act, the case was registered against him.
(See Mohd. lqbal Ahmad vs State of A.P., ; ; Legislature advisedly conferred power on the authority competent to remove the public servant from the office to grant sanction for the obvious reason that that authority alone would be able, when facts and evidence are placed before him, to judge whether a serious offence is committed or the prosecution is either frivolous or specula tive.
So viewing the aforesaid constitutional provisions for removal of a Judge for proved misbehaviour or incapacity, it is imperative that each House of the Parlia ment shall make an address to the President after the same is supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority for not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting.
The other authority cannot be involved to grant sanction for prosecu tion of a Judge since it would be inconsistent with the provisions of the Act and the Constitutional requirements.
Judges should be of stern stuff and tough fibre, unbending before power, economic or political, and they must uphold the core principle of the rule of law which says "Be you ever so high, the law is above you.
Shamsher Singh vs State of Punjab, [ 14 and S.P. Gupta vs Union of India, [1982] 2 SCR 365.
We will presently analyse the ingredients of the offence under clause (e), but before that, two decisions of this Court on the scope of clause (e) may be referred.
It follows that the public servant falling within the purview of the Act must invariably fall within one of the three clauses in Sub section (1) of Section 6.
It has to be borne in mind, however, that all courts in india are common to the Centre and the States and can entertain and decide cases relating to exclusively Central subjects.
In the book "Judicial Independence The Contemporary Debate" by section Shetreet and J. Deschenes '(1985 ed.) there is an article titled as "Who watches the Watchman" by Mauro Cappelletti.
So far as the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court are concerned, it was contended that there is no relationship of master and servant between them and the Government.and clause (c) of Section 6(1) is inapplicable to them.
Sub article 2 of Article 124 further provides that every Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Courts in the States as the President may deem necessary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of sixty five years.
Any attempt to bring the Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court within the purview of the Prevention of Corruption Act by a seemingly constructional exercise of the enactment, appears to me, in all humility, an exercise to fit a square peg in a round hole when the two were never intended to match.
A public servant occupies office which renders him a public servant and 287 occupying.
It seems to me, however, fundamentally essential that the High Courts, the Federal Court and the Supreme Court (when established) should not be considered a part of, or working under, any department of the executive Government of India.
It is signifi cant to note that there is useful parallel found in Section 5(3) and clause (e) of Section 5(1).
252 But we know of no law providing protection for Judges from Criminal prosecution.
The need for such legislation now would, therefore, not be entirely on account of the absence of it so far, but also due to the failure of proper discharge of this consti tutional obligation and not any defect in the constitutional scheme.
Of course, the power of the President to remove a Judge of the Supreme Court or of the High Court is to be 219 exercised by the President in the manner expressly laid down in clause 4 of Article 124.
In S.P. Gupta & Ors.
" In the present appeal the appellant ceases to be a public servant as h. resigned from the office.
The provision for sanction is like the keystone in the arch of the enactment.
If prosecuted in a criminal court he may be punished by way of imprison ment or fine or with both but in departmental enquiry, the highest penalty that could be imposed on him is dismissal.
That does not however, follow that the Judges of superi or Courts are entitled to be excluded from the scope of the Act as contended for the appellant.
According to him the entire Section 6 seems to apply only to such public servants where there is relationship of master and servant between, them and their employer.
It does not provide for prosecution of a Judge for offences under section 5(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.
It is argued that if the grant of sanction under Section 6 of the Act for prosecution of the incumbent for the offence is not feasible or envisaged, the clear indica tion is that holder of such office does not fall within the purview of the Act.
But Parliament is competent to place the burden on certain aspects on the accused as well and partic ularly in matters "specially within his knowledge".
Any such law would vitiate the scheme and the federal structure of the Constitution particularly the scheme of Article 124(4) read with Article 2 17 and 2 18.
As the commons acquired direct control over ministers, there was no need to employ the cumbersome machinery of impeachment and there has been no impeachment since 1805.
It is a sad commentary on the working of the appointment process and the behaviour of some of the appointees which has led to this situation.
Therefore, the repository of this power is not in the Presi dent alone but it is exercised after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two third of the members of that House is presented to the President.
Before us, counsel for the appellant advanced only two propositions.
We gave our fullest consideration to the questions raised.
It enables the Court to raise a presumption of guilt of the accused in certain circumstances.
That for the period between 1 May 1969 to 24 February 1976, he was in possession of the pecuniary resources and property disproportionate by Rs.6.41,416.36 to the known sources of income over the same period.
Similarly, a Judge of the High Court shall be appointed by the President by the warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, the Governor of the State, and in case of an appoint ment of the Judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of the High Court and shall hold office except in the case of an additional judge till he attains the age of 62 years.
The standards of judicial behaviour, both on and off the Bench, are normally extremely high.
Apart from the legal permissibility of implying these guidelines in the Act, there are obvious practical difficul ties which cannot be overcome.
A judicial scandal has always been regarded as far more deplorable than a scandal involving either the Executive or a member of the Legislature.
I am sure the Cabinet will agree to the principle of keeping the judiciary free from the control of the executive.
Similarly the President appoints the Judges of the Supreme Court.
He observed that clause (e) of Section 5(1) of the Act places the burden of establishing unsatisfactory accounting squarely on the prosecution.
vs President of India and Ors.
The President exercises his powers by and with the advice of his Council of Ministers.
Any provision which cannot apply to the Chief Justice of India, cannot obviously apply to the Judges of the Supreme Court, or for that matter even to the High Court Judges, since the Chief Justice of India is not a vertical superior of any of them, there being no such vertical hierarchy and the Chief Justice of India having no power of superintendence even over the High Court Judges, much less the Supreme Court Judges: The incumbent of the office of Chief Justice of India exercises only moral authority over his colleagues in the Supreme Court and the High Court Judges, which has no legal sanction behind it making it justiciable.
When a public servant is prosecuted for an offence which challenges his honesty and integrity, the issue in such a case is not only between the prosecutor and the offender, but the State is also vitally concerned with it as it affects the morale of public serv ants and also the administrative interest of the State.
Article 2 18 lays down that a Judge of the High Court may be removed from his office by the President in the manner provided under clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124.
It has many dimensions.
O.P. Gupta, A.I.R. 197 1 SC 1132, wherein it has been observed: "It seems to us that whoever drafted the Impeachment Motion drafted it with a view to bring the facts within the meaning of the express "misbehaviour" in Article 124(4) for he must have realised that to say that a Judge has committed errors, even gross errors, cannot amount to "misbehaviour".
If there is now a felt need to provide for such a situation, the remedy lies in suitable parliamentary legislation for the purpose preserving the independence of judiciary free from likely executive influ ence while providing a proper and adequate machinery for investigation into allegations of corruption against such constitutional functionaries and for their trial and punish ment after the investigation.
The fact that in addition to the word 'bribery ' the word 'corruption ' is used shows that the legislation was intended to combat also other evils in additon to bribery.
Clauses (a), (b) and (c) in Sub section (1) of Section 6 exhaus 286 tively provide for the competent authority to grant sanction for prosecution in case of all the public servants failing within the purview of the Act.
In the circumstances now obtain ing in the country, the immovable property return has ceased to have much significance.
Therefore, when the offence is alleged to have been committed the accused was a public servant but by the time the court is called upon to take cognizance of the offence committed by him as public servant, he has ceased to be public servant, no sanction would be necessary for taking cognizance of the offence against him.
Care should be taken that nonest and fearless judges are not harassed.
Section 4 raises presumption unless the contrary is proved by the accused in respect of offence punishable under section 161 or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code or of an offence referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of section 5(1) of the Act.
The grant of previous sanction under Section 6 being a condition precedent for the prosecution of a public servant covered by the Act, it must follow that the holder of an office who may be a public servant according to the wide definition of the expression in the Act but whose category for the grant of sanction for prosecution is not envisaged by Section 6 of the Act, is outside the purview of the Act, not intended to be covered by the Act.
They hold office till they attain the age of superannuation.
We have examined and re examined the questions before reaching the conclusion.
The Investigating Officer is only required to collect material to find out whether the offence alleged appears to have been committed.
The provisions of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 Shall apply in relation to a High Court as they apply in relation to the Supreme Court with the substitution of refer ences to the High Court for references to the Supreme Court." According to Article 124(4), a Judge can be removed from his office by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by the pre scribed majority on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
namely fearlessness of other power centres economic or political, and freedom from prejudices acquired and nourished by the class of which the Judges belong.
Mention may be made in this connec tion to the decision in C.K. Daphtary vs
The Act had already been made when the Constitution was framed and the amendment made in the Act in 1964 was after the experience for some time of the functioning of the judiciary under the Constitu tion.
It may be mentioned that instances of punishment for corruption in earlier centuries including the indictment of Lord Bacon is not apposite for the reason that the situation then was not akin to the scheme in the Indian Constitution for the judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court and the protection given to them for ensuring the independence of judiciary.
As impeachment of political offenders might involve not only deprivation of office but other penalties, the royal prerogative of pardon does not extend to prevent ing impeachment but extends to pardoning punishments in flicted on an impeachment.
It has been said that: 225 "As to the Judges of the United States at least lack of 'good behaviour ' and 'high crimes and misdemeanours ' are overlapping if not precisely coincidental concepts." (Seervai 's Constitutional Law of India, Third Edition, Vol.
Before proceeding further 1 would again state that having answered the question as to whether a Judge of the superior court can be removed by some authority whoever he or they may be, in the affirmative, it is not necessary to decide the further controversy as mentioned above.
In 1917, Justice Archibald of the Commerce Court was 'removed from office by impeachment for soliciting for himself and others, favours from railroad companies, some of which were at the time litigants in his court; in 1936 the removal of Judge Wright of the Florida Court for conduct in relation to a receivership Which evoked serious doubts as to this integ rity, although he was acquitted of specific charges, seem to have restored the wider view.
These words in clause (e) have to be given some meaning which would place the burden on the prosecution, howsoever light, to make out a prima facie case for obtaining sanction of the competent authority under Section 6 of the Act and this can be done only if it is read as a part of the scheme under which the public servant is required to furnish particulars of his assets with reference to which the disproportion and his inability to satisfactorily account can be inferred.
Conversely, if the holder of a public office while continuing in that office could not be prosecuted under this Act on account of inapplicability of Section 6 and, therefore, the non feasibility of previous sanction for prosecution under Section 6, then on his ceas ing to hold the office, he is not brought within the purview of the Act merely because Antulay decides that no sanction for prosecution under Section 6 is 'needed after the holder of a public office ceases to hold that office.
The author has surveyed the penal liability of judges in the legal systems of some of the countries.
In the instant case, the charge sheet contains all the requirements of Section 173(2).
This approach is in accord with the policy underlying Sec. 6 in that a public servant is not to be exposed to harassment of a frivolous or speculative prosecution.
227 It is also necessary to mention in this connection that the appellant resigned his post of Chief Justice when FIR was lodged by the CBI and so he ceased to be a public serv ant on the date of lodging the FIR against him by the CBI.
Sub article 4 of the said article 124 further enjoins that a Judge of the Supreme Court shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total member ship of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting has 218 been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
In other words, the President cannot on its own remove a Judge of the Supreme Court unless an address by each House of Parliament supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, is passed and presented to him for removal of the Judge on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
There is no merit whatso ever in this point either.
The decision in S.P. Gupta was rendered much later and while dealing with the situations arising out of allegations of misbehaviour including corruption against High Court Judges, it was held that the only machinery with legal sanction in existence is that available under clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 of the Constitution.
Section 77 of the Indian Penal Code provides immunity to the Judges in respect of any act done by a Judge when acting judicially in the exercise of any power which is, or which in good faith he believes to be, given to him by law.
The Statement of Objects and Reasons accompanying the Bill leading to the enactment of 'The AntiCorruption Laws (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Act No. 40 of 1964) by which clause (e) of Section 5(1) was introduced into the Act reads: The Committee has recommended a number of important amendments to the Preven tion of Corruption Act, 1947.
All the same I deem it fit to record the same with my reasons for taking a different view.
vs Union of Inida & Ors. etc.
Apart from the argument of the learned counsel for the appellant that the inability to satisfactorily account for possession of disproportionate assets is an ingredient of the offence in clause (e), practical require ment of this clause is a further pointer to indicate inap plicability thereof to a Judge of a High Court or the Su preme Court.
No doubt for the judicial community in general it would be a sad day to become suspect needing such a legislation to keep it on the right track.
The patchwork of proposing guidelines suggested by the learned Solicitor General apart from being an impermissible judicial exercise, also does not present a complete and harmonious picture and fails to provide answers to several obvious querries which arise.
Maybe, need is now felt for a law providing for trial and punishment of a superior Judge who is charged with the criminal misconduct of corruption by abuse of his office.
239 If there is no relationship of master and servant, as be tween public servant and the authority to appoint him, clause (c) has no application to the public servant.
This Court being the ultimate guardian of rights of people and independence of the judiciary will not deny itself the opportunity to lay down such guidelines.
The question is whether they could be brought within the purview of clause (c) of Section 6(1).
Section 3(2) states that if the motion referred to in sub section (1) is admitted, the Speaker or, as the case may be, the Chairman shall constitute a Committee for making an investigation into the grounds on which the removal of a Judge is prayed for.
290 other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office '.
I would, therefore, allow the appeal even though by the majority view it must fail.
If it is considered that the situation has altered requiring scrutiny of the conduct of even Judges at the highest level and that it is a matter for the Parliament to decide, then the remedy lies in enacting suitable legislation for that purpose providing for said guards to ensure independence of judiciary since the exist ing law does not provide for that situation.
But a Judge must keep himself absolutely above suspicion" to preserve the impartiality and independence of the judiciary.
On 229 1 May 1969, he became the Chief Justice of the Madras High Court.
I may also at this stage refer to the recommendations made by the Santhanam Committee which preceded the 1964 amendment in the Act.
However, it is just not throwing some doubt on the prosecution version.
The Chief Justice of India in consulta tion with the Chief Justices of the High Courts should arrange for a thorough inquiry into the incidence of corruption, among the judiciary, and evolve, in consultation with the Central and State Governments, proper measures to prevent and eliminate it.
The competent authority may refuse sanction for prosecution if the offence alleged has no material to support or it is frivolous or intended to harass the honest officer.
For the purpose of deciding this case, we have to see the law as it now exists.
This appears to be the obvious conclusion even for a case like the present where no such sanction for prosecution is necessary on the view taken in Antulay, and not chal lenged before us, that the sanction for prosecution under Section 6 is not necessary when cognizance of the offence is taken after the accused has ceased to hold the office in question.
The public servant defined under section 2 means a public serv ant as defined in Section 21 of the IPC.
For, in neither case, were the two judges found guilty of an indictable offence.
The appel lant on coming to know of these developments proceeded on leave from 9 March 1976 and subsequently retired on 8 April 1976 on attaining the age of superannuation.
If the community loses its faith in the courts, their very existence will cease to have any meaning.
Clause (e) creates a statutory offence which must be proved by the prosecution.
1338 39) (emphasis supplied) Even though the above observations were made in the context of continuance in office of Additional Judge of the High Court and the transfer of Judges to another High Court, yet the nature of office of a High Court Judge and the only legal sanction available under the existing law to deal with them even in the event of allegations of corruption was clearly spelt out.
The concept of sanction for prosecution by a superior is so inextricably woven into the fabric of the enactment that the pattern is incomplete without it.
250 In the event of President regarded as the authority competent to give prior sanction for the prosecution of a Judge, counsel for the appellant contended, that the Presi dent cannot act independently.
Where there is relationship of master and servant the master would be in commanding position.
(2) If, from information received or otherwise, a police officer has reason to suspect the commission of an offence which.he is empowered to investigate under subsection (1) and considers that for the purpose of investigation or inquiry into such offence, it is necessary to inspect any bankers ' books, then, notwithstanding anything conrained in any law for the time being in force, he may inspect any bankers ' books in so far as they relate to the accounts of the person suspected to have committed that offence or of any other person suspected to be holding money on 278 behalf of such person, and take or cause to be taken certified copies of the relevant entries therefrom, and the bank concerned shall be bound to assist the police officer in the exercise of his powers under this sub section: Provided that no power under this sub section in relation to the accounts of any person shall be exercised by a police officer below the rank of Superintendent of Police, unless he is specially authorised in this behalf by a police officer of or above the rank of a Superintendent of Police.
The view taken by the High Court appears to be unassailable.
Three very important questions fall for decision in this case.
It is inappropriate to state that conviction and sen tence are no bar for the Judge to sit in the Court.
291 There are several fallacies in this argument.
He may seek his clarification and if necessary he may cross check with him about his known sources of income and assets possessed by him.
Since I do not find any merit in any of the points urged on behalf of the appellant this appeal is dismissed.
The collec tive wisdom of the constitutional functionaries involved in the process of appointing a superior Judge is expected to ensure that persons of unimpeachable integrity alone are appointed to these high offices and no doubtful persons gain entry.
In other words, the authority itself should be competent to remove or the one to decide the question of removal and not the which merely obeys or implements by the decision of some other authority.
The third Judge Mr. Justice Balasubramanyan in a separate judg ment has concurred with the majority views on most of the questions.
(See clause (5) of Article 324 of the Constitution.
As to who is precisely the authority in this regard is a matter which, in my view, does not arise in the present case, but the vital question whether such an authority exists at all must be answered in the affirmative.
We must never forget that this Court is not a Court of limited jurisdiction of only dispute settling.
In view of the elaborate discus sion of the facts and law in the judgments of my learned brothers, I am refraining from dealing with them in detail, and am indicating my reasons briefly.
As has been stated earlier, the power to remove a High Court Judge from his office does exist and has to be exercised in appropriate circumstances according to the provisions of Article 124.
Restriction on discussion in the Legislature.
If these things are allowed to go unnoticed it will create a serious inroad on the dignity respect, and credibility and integrity of the High Office which a Judge of the Supreme Court and of the High Court occupies resulting in the erotion on the dignity and respect for the high office of the Judges in the estimation of the public.
VI, pp. 274 76) The framers of the Constitution had visualized the higher echelons of the judiciary as comprised of men of strong moral and ethical fibre who would provide moral leadership in the society of free India and function as the sentinel of the other wings of the State not needing scruti ny themselves.
The provisions broadly include the existing offences under sections 161 and 165 of the Indian Penal Code committed by public servants and enact a new rule of presumptive evidence against the accused.
They have pro tection from civil liability for any act done or ordered to be done by them in discharge of their judicial duty whether or not such judicial duty is performed within the limits of their jurisdiction.
The power to punish a High Court Judge, if one may so describe it, is to be found only in article 2 18 read with article 124(4) and (5) of the Constitu tion, under which a Judge of the High Court can be removed from his office by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament, supported by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less then two thirds of the members of that House present and voting, has been presented to the President in the same session for such removal on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity.
The difficulty of sanction under Section 6 for the prosecution of superior Judges and the special provisions contained in clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 read with Article 2 18, it was suggested, pre sented no difficulty since the President of India could be treated as the competent authority to grant sanction in accordance.
" Section 4 provides: 4.
The further question as to the identity of the authority empowered to grant the necessary sanction as mentioned in Section 6 of the Act was hotly debated during the hearing of the case.
No such immunity from criminal prosecution has been provided for in the case of a Judge of the High Court or of the Supreme Court.
The process and power are 'both integrated in Parliament and Parliament alone is competent to remove a Judge.
These are strong reasons to hold that Section 6(1)(c) of the Act is inappliable to a Judge of a High Court or the Supreme Court and for that reason such constitutional functionaries do not fall within the purview of the Act.
The Judge whose character is clouded and whose standards of morality and rectitude are in doubt may not have the judicial inde pendence and may not command confidence of the public.
Article 2 18 states that provisions of clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 shall apply in relation to a High Court.
No discussion shall take place in the Legislature of a State with respect to the conduct of any Judge of the Supreme Court or of a High Court in the dis charge of his duties.
They are required to 'uphold the Constitution and the laws ', 'wit hout fear ' that is without fear of the Executive; and 'without favour ' that is without expecting a favour from the Executive.
The competent authority has to examine independently and impartially the material on record to form his own opinion whether the offence alleged is frivolous or vexatious.
The High Court Judge retires at 62, while the Supreme Court Judge retires at 65.
Assuming that it is permissible to do so in the absence of any such provi sion in the Act, the problem which stares us in the face is, what is to be done where such action is contemplated against the Chief Justice of India himself.
Such an exercise by the Court does not amount to construing an ambiguous provision to advance the object of its enactment, but would be an act of trenching upon a virgin field of legislation and bringing within the ambit of the existing legislation a category of persons outside it, to whom it was not intended to apply either as initially enacted or when amended later.
(See clause (1) of Article 148 and for removal of the Chief Election Commissioner.
We will have an occasion to consider the provisions of Section 6 in detail and for the present we may deal only with the condition prescribed by the Section for a Court to take cognizance of an offence The condition prescribed therein is the previous sanction of a competent authority.
The need for sanction under Section 6 for prosecution of the holder of a public office indicates the ambit and scope of the enactment for deciding whether the holder of a public office falls within the purview of the enactment.
The Judge as a con stitutional functionary being appointed by the President can only be removed by mandatory procedure provided under Arti cle 124 of the Constitution and in no other manner.
XXX XXX XXX 5A. Investigation into cases under this Act. (1) Notwithstanding anything con tained in the Code of Crimi 277 nal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), no police officer below the rank, (a) in the case of the Delhi Special Police Establishnent, of an Inspector of Police; (b) in the presidency towns of Calcutta and Madras, of an Assistant Commissioner of Po lice; (c) in the presidency town of Bombay, of Superintendent of Police; and (d) elsewhere, of a Deputy Superintendent of Police, shall investigate any offence punishable under Section 161.
These rules differ from place to place and are amended from time to time according to the changing exigencies.
office as the Chief Justice of Madras gradually commenced accumulation of disproportionate assets etc.
Section 6(1)(c) speaks of 'authority competent to remove ' which plainly indicates the substantive competence of the authori ty to remove, not merely the procedural or formal part of it.
Undoubtedly the accused must be a public ' servant when he is alleged to have committed the offence of which he is accused because Sections 161, 164, 165 IPC and Sec.
Mr. Kapil Sibal learned Counsel for the appellant stressed the need to read clause (c) in "ejusdem generis" to clauses (a) and (b).
In these circumstances the only question to be consid ered is who will be the authority or who is the authority to grant sanction for prosecution of a Judge of the High Court under section 6(1)(c) of the said Act.
The FIR in question, which has been lodged against the appellant should be quashed and set aside Section 2 of the Prevention of Corruption Act denotes a public servant as defined in Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
(2) Any public servant who commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with imprison ment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
Clauses (4) and (5) of Article 124 which apply to a Judge of the Supreme Court are made applicable to Judges of the High Courts by virtue of Article 218.
It has been urged by the Solicitor General as well as the Additional Solicitor General that the Judges of the High Court cannot be said to be exempted from prosecution in respect of offences provided in the Prevention of Corruption Act.
This is so because what must ultimately sustain the court in public confidence is the character and independence of the judges .
R.P. Appeal dismissed.
"Judge" The word "Judge" denotes not only every person who is officially designated as a Judge, but also every person who is empowered by law to give, in any legal proceeding, civil or criminal, a definitive judgment, or a judgment which, if not appealed against, would be definitive, or a judgment which, if confirmed by some other authority, would be definitive, or 242 who is one of a body of persons, which body of persons is empowered by law to give such a judgment.
The other two have not been supported before us by counsel for the appellant.
This is the only argument for this purpose and, therefore, its tenability has to be tested.
Clause (4) of Article 124 mandates that "a Judge shall not be removed from his office except by an order of the President passed after an address by each House of Parliament . " The clause (4) is in the negative terms.
In a letter dated 18th December, 1947, to the Prime Minister, Pt.
" This is the principle of independence of the judi ciary which is vital for the establishment of real participatory democracy, maintenance of the rule of law as a dynamic concept and delivery of social justice to the vulnerable sections of the community.
It does appear that this too is a pointer in the direction that even after the 1964 amendment of the Act following the Report of the Santhanam Committee when clause (e) was inserted in Sub section (1) of Section 5 of the Act, the Legislature did not intend to include Judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court within the purview of the enactment.
Nor it can be regarded as con trary to Article 21 of the Constitution as contended for the appellant.
We may make it clear that if a Judge is convicted for the offence of criminal misconduct or any other offence involving moral turpitude, it is but proper for him to keep himself away from the Court.
It would be reasonable to presume that the Legislature while enacting clause (c) of Section 6(1) of the Act could not have intend ed Parliament to be the sanctioning authority.
(2) Any public servant who commits criminal misconduct shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than one year but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine: Provided that the court may, for any special reasons recorded in writing, impose a sentence of imprisonment of less than one year.
It is a settled law that the authority entitled to grant sanction must apply its mind to the facts of the case and all the evidence collected before forming an opinion whether to grant sanction or not.
Taking into consideration the independence of judiciary as envisaged by the Constitution, it has further been observed that the Chief Justice of India will have to be 267 consulted in the matter and steps would have to be taken in accordance with his advice.
He must then proceed to record his own finding on the expla nation of the public servant.
No single person or authority is competent to take even cognizance of any allegation of misconduct of a Judge, or to take legal action for his removal.
No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under section 161 (or section 164) or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code, or under sub section (2) (or sub section 3A) of section 5 of this Act, alleged to have been committed by a public servant, except with the previous sanction, (a) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of the (Union) and is not removable from his office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government; (b) in the case of a person who is employed in connection with the affairs of (a State) and is not removable from his 236 office save by or with the sanction of the Central Government (of the) State Government (c) in the case of any other person, of the authority competent to remove him from his office.
Admittedly, such previous sanction is a condition precedent for taking cognizance of an offence punishable under the Act, of a public servant who is prosecuted during his continuance in the office.
However, the question having arisen we are bound to give our opinion.
The section does not contemplate a notice to be served on the accused.
A.R. Antulay; , before a Constitution Bench of this Court where it has been observed: "Section 6 bars the Court from taking cogni zance of the offences therein enumerated alleged to have been committed by a public servant except with the previous sanction of the competent authority empowered to grant the requisite sanction . . .
The Judges are liable to be dealt with just the same way as any other person in respect of criminal offence.
But as these small transac tions may cumulatively be sizable and have a big effect on his financial position, the purpose will 285 be served only by obtaining a periodical balance sheet.
Where the office held by the public servant is not a part of vertical hierarchy in which there is an authority above the public servant, then, Section 6 can have no appli cation.
In this context, it would not be out of place to mention that this unfortunate situation has also another dimension.
It follows that the holder of an office, even though a 'public servant ' accord ing to the definition in the Act, who does not fall within any of the clauses (a), (b) or (c) of Sub section (1) of Section 6 must be held to be outside the purview of the Act since this special enactment was not enacted to cover that category of public servants inspite of the wide definition of 'public servant ' in the Act.
The expression "the authority competent to remove" used in clause (c) of Section 6(1) is to be construed to mean also an authority without whose order or affirmation the public servant cannot be removed.
Mr. Justice Shetty has held that since ultimately it is the order of the President which is necessary for the removal of a Judge, he must be treated to be the competent authority.
The Legislature has advisedly used the expression "satisfactorily account".
It may also be noticed that the provisions of the , provide the procedure for investigation and proof of an allegation of corruption against a superior Judge and if the Prevention of Corruption Act is held applicable to them, then there would be two separate procedures under these two enactments providing for investigation into the same charge.
As observed by this Court in Satya Narain Musadi and Ors.
servants of their assets and liabilities determine the scope of the law.
The appeal raises the questions of singular importance and consequence to Judges of the High Courts and this Apex Court.
I am unable to sub scribe to this view.
There seems to be another reason for taking away the discretion of the investigating agency to prosecute or not to prosecute a public servant.
It has enumerated as many as twelve categories of public servants.
If these facts are proved the section makes it obligatory for the Court to presume that the accused person is guilty of crimi nal misconduct in the discharge of his official duty, unless the contrary is proved by the accused that he is not so guilty.
In my considered view laying down guidelines to be implicitly obeyed, if they find no place in the existing enactment and to bring the superior Judges within the purview of the existing law on that basis, would amount to enacting a .
No doubt, as held in Antulay, no sanction for prosecution under Section 6 is required after the public servant ceases to hold office, but it does not imply that every holder of a public office after ceasing to hold that office is within the purview of the enactment, even though during the tenure in office, only those public servants are 299 within its ambit in whose case sanction under Section 6 must be obtained.
It is farthest from our mind that a Judge of the Supreme Court or that of the High Court will be immune from prosecu tion for criminal offences committed during the tenure of his office under the provisions of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
But there is no such relationship between the Judges and their appointing authority that is, the Government.
if it is determined in favour of the appel lant, the first becomes academic and wc may conveniently leave it out.
The remedy is not to extend the existing law and make it workable by reading into it certain guidelines for which there is no basis in it, since the Act was not intended to apply to them.
The fact remains that while according sanction to prosecute under Section 6 of the Act, the competent authority has to satisfy itself about the public servant 's inability to satisfactorily account for possession of dis proportionate assets.
He has however, differed on three points out of which one alone need be mentioned.
In the case of any late starter or an exception, the power of removal in accordance with Article 124(4) by adopt ing the procedure prescribed under Article 124(5) was ex pected to be sufficient to eradicate the exceptional menace while preserving independence of the judiciary.
(3) No process for the arrest or imprisonment of the President, or the Governor of a State, shall issue from any court during his term of office.
But Counsel for the appellant has reservations.
Section 6 creates a bar to the court from taking cogni zance of offences therein enumerated except with the previous sanction of the authority set out in clause (a) (b) & (c) of sub sec.
Remove the keystone of sanc tion and the arch crumbles.
