" It was a law in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and as such continued in force.
No question of discrimination can arise in such circumstances.
The notification and its application to any area would depend on the necessity 225 to declare the substance as poison on the particular facts and situation prevailing in that area and the need to regu late the possession and sale in that area.
In other words, it is intended to control over the traffic in poisons.
It was the con tention of the petitioners before the authorities that their "unit is manufacturing only those thinners which contain only liquid substance, like as ecotone, ethyl acetate SDS etc.
Originally the Act contained a schedule in which the list of substances declared as poisons were listed.
The object of the enactment is to regulate the posses sion for sale and the sale, whether wholesale or retail of poisons and the importation of the same.
Any substance which is used for purposes mentioned therein can definitely be declared as poison.
In this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, the petitioners have questioned the con stitutional validity of Section 5 of the (12 of 1919) (hereinafter called 'the Act ').
It states that the State Government may by rule regulate the posses sion of any specified poison in any local area in which the use of such poison for the purpose of committing murder or mischief by poisoning cattle appears to it to be of such frequent occurrence as to render restriction on the posses sion thereof desirable.
Section 5 of the Act the con stitutional validity of which is questioned reads as fol lows: "5.
Rules were amended in 1973 and duly notified as required by the Act.
" We are not impressed with the argument that any require ment in this Rule is unreasonable or offends the petition ers ' right to carry on any trade or business.
Nothing is a poison unless regard be had to its administration.
It was further contended that the restriction imposed on possession for sale and sale were not reasonable restrictions.
(ii) All 'poisons ' mentioned in clause (x) of rule 2 shall be kept in a room or building (according to quantity maintained) which shall be secured by lock and key in a separate receptacle of glass, metal and earthenware etc.
This limitation is inherent in the scheme of the Act itself.
If the resultant effect of administering into the system pro duces a violent, morbid or fatal changes or which destroys living tissues, the substance can be safely called poison.
The Act is intended to regulate the importation, possession and sale of poisons.
and not all solubles.
Rules of 1926 were made in exercise of the rule making power under Section 3 of the Act.
The grounds on which the vires of the provisions is attacked are that the section gives an unguided, unchanelised and arbitrary power to the State Government to include any substance as poison for the purpose of restriction to be imposed on the posses sion for sale and sale of the same.
Rule 2 was amended as already stated including 'thinner ' of the description mentioned therein as poison.
Though the original enactment, the Poisons Act, 1904 was restrict ed, it was applicable to white arsenic, the expanded its provisions and enabled State Government to declare any substance as poison for the purposes of the Act by a notification under the Act or the rules made under the Act.
Though in the beginning the petitioners were contending that in substance manufactured by them did not come within Rule 2(x)(2) and there were some correspondence in this regard, when the competent authority held that the substance manufactured by the petitioners would come within the definition of 'thinner ' as contained in Rule 2(x)(2) of the Rules, the petitioners did not question the finding on any material.
