Thus the purport of Atam Prakash 's case (supra) was that while co sharers were entitled to pre empt, the confer ment of that right on certain kinsfolk based on the rule of consanguinity being a relic of the feudal past could not be tolerated.
Under the Punjab Pre emption Act, 1905, the corresponding provision, section 12, con ferred a right of pre emption, in the case of a sale of a share of such land or properly held jointly, firstly, in the lineal discendents of the vendor in male line in order of succession; secondly, in the co sharers, if any, who are agnates, in order of succession; thirdly, in the persons described in sub clause (a) i.e. in persons who but for such sale would be entitled to inherit the properly in the event of his or their decease, in order of succession and fourth ly, in the co sharers jointly or severally.
Since the petitioners admittedly fall either under clause 'First ' or under clause 'Secondly ' of Section 15(1)(b) of the Act they are clearly outside the scope of clause 'Fourthly '.
Finding no reasonable classifi cation it struck down 124 clauses 'first ', 'secondly ' and 'thirdly ' of section 15(1)(a), clauses 'first ', 'secondly ', and 'thirdly ' of section 15(1)(b) and clause 'first ', 'secondly ', and 'third ly ' of section 15(1)(c) and the entire section 15(2) as ultra vires the Constitution.
Since this Court found certain intrinsic contradictions in the list of relatives covered by the first three clauses, it saw no justification for the classification contained in the said provision conferring a right based on consanguinity and, therefore, struck down those clauses:as discriminatory and violative of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution.
It also found the list of kinsfolk entitled to pre emption as intrinsically defec tive and Self contradictory.
It will be noticed that priority for the exercise of the right owes statutorily fixed and even in the case of those falling within the same class, the exercise of right was regulated by the use of the expression, 'in order of succession '.
A similar question came up before this Court in Jagdish & Ors.
The right of pre emption in regard to a co sharer was upheld on the consideration that if an outsider is introduced as a co sharer in a property it will make common management extremely difficult and destroy the benefits of ownership in common.
What this Court disapproved as offen sive to Articles 14 and 15 is the classification based on consanguinity and not on co ownership.
Read in the context, it becomes clear that the legislature desired to confer the right of pre emption on specified family members of the vendor or vendors in the first three clauses of section 15(1)(b) and with a view to covering all the remaining co sharers not specifically mentioned the preceding clauses it used the expression 'other co sharers ' in the fourth clause which was meant to serve as a residuary clause to ensure 127 that, no co sharer is left out.
This Court never intended to exclude any speci fied co owners from the scope of clause fourthly of section 15(1)(b) of the Act.
The 1905 Act was repealed and replaced by the 1913 Act.
If the preceding clauses were not erased from the statute book as unconstitu tional the kinsfolk would have exercised the right in the order of preference, for which no justification was found.
