268 off except against profits and gains accruing or arising in (an Indian State) from the same business, profession or vocation and exempt from tax under the said provisions ".
It was argued on behalf of the Revenue that this (1) , 37.
Such sums were to be taken,into account for the purpose of determining the rate under section 16 of the Indian Act.
In order to determine the true meaning of the words of the proviso it is necessary and convenient to refer to the scheme of the Indian Act which is admitted by the parties to be same as that of the Travancore Act.
It is significant that in sections 2(13) and (5) of the Indian Act of 1918 corresponding to sections 2(15) and 6 of the Indian Act of 1922 the word used was" income " which in the latter Act was expanded into " income, profits and gains ".
Thus the mere use of the words loss of profits or gains to be, set off against profits and gains would not be sufficient to restrict the scope of the proviso to the profits and losses arising under the head business in the two territories, i. e., British India and the Indian States.
In C. A. 260/58 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
Ordinarily the effect of an excepting or a qualifying proviso is to carve something out of the preceding enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be in it and such a proviso cannot be construed as enlarging the scope of an enactment when it can be fairly and properly construed without attributing to it that effect.
But it has been held that a section framed as a proviso to a preceding section may sometimes contain matter which is in substance a fresh enactment adding and not merely qualifying that which goes before.
It may be mentioned that in the majority of cases decided in India the proviso to section 24(1) of the Indian Act has been construed in a manner contrary to the submissions made on behalf of the Revenue.
In our view the question referred to the High Court which is common to the two appeals was rightly answered in favour of the assessee.
263 there were six heads of income chargeable to income tax.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 32(1) and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act (hereinafter called the Travancore Act).
It may be stated that the relevant sections of the Travancore Act which govern the two appeals are identically worded with those of the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 (to be called the Indian Act).
In the course of argument a number of cases of the, various High Courts were cited and criticised.
(2) [1922] 1 Ch 517.
K.N. Rajagopala Sastri, R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for the appellant.
In the result the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.
The Privy Council in Arunachalam Chettiar vs Commissioner of Income tax(1) held that this section was meant for a set off of profits arising under different heads and not where profits and losses had to be adjusted if they arose under the same head.
Lord Macmillan in Madras & Southern Mahratta Railway Co. vs Bezwada Municipality (3) laid down the sphere of a proviso as follows : " The proper function of a proviso is to except and deal with a case which would otherwise fall within the general language of the main enactment, and its effect is confined to that case.
This Court in Anglo French Textiles Co. Ltd. vs Commissioner of Incometax, Madras (1) again emphasised that distinction in the following words: " Next, a, set off under section 24(1) can only be claimed when the loss arises under one head and the profits against which it is sought to be set off arises under a different head.
Rhondda Urban Council vs Taff Vale Railway (2).
262 proviso falls in the second category and takes the present cases out of section 32(1) of the Travancore Act and imposes a liability to tax on the profits or gains arising in that State, disallowing a deduction of the losses in British India and in States other than Travancore State against profits made in Travancore State: Rhondda Urban Council vs Taff Vale Railway (1) and Harrison vs Ward (2).
On an application of the assessee the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin: " Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the loss of Rs. 27,709 arising in Cochin State could be set off against the profit of Rs. 38,998 arising in Travancore State ? " and was answered in favour of the assessee.
Under section 2(15) of the Act total income ' was defined to mean the total amount of income, profits and gains computed in the manner laid down in that Act.
G. B. Pai and Sardar Bahadur, for the respondent in C. A. No. 259 of 1959.
The assesse made a profit in Travancore State and incurred a loss in the State of Cochin and sought to deduct this loss from the profit of Travancore State thus showing a net profit of Rs. 2,643.
It has to operate in the same field and if the language of the main enactment is clear it cannot be used for the purpose of interpreting the main enactment or to exclude by implication what the enactment clearly says unless the words of the proviso are such that that is its necessary effect.
The Income tax Officer determined its assessable income to be Rs. 90,947 representing only the profit it made in Travancore State and under section 32(1) proviso (1) of the Travancore Act he refused a deduction of Rs. 79,275 shown as loss from branches situate outside the State of Travancore, in British India and other Indian States.
(2) , 258.
Therefore it is to be construed harmoniously with the main enactment (Per Das, C. J.) in Abdul Jabar Butt vs State of Jammu & Kashmir (1).
Section 3 provided for the charge of income tax in respect of the total income of the previous year.
