Interfering with the concurrent findings recorded by the two courts below the High Court came to the conclusion that the courts below had applied the wrong test and had based their findings on the question of tenancy and dispossession on mere conjectures.
It is against this order of the High Court that the present appeal by special leave is preferred.
We may now proceed to examine whether this view taken by the High Court is correct.
The Trial Court also found that the plaintiff had paid a sum of Rs. 1200 to defendant No.2 through his employee Dattu Kenkro by way of advance rent for the year commencing from January 1, 1968.
Rule 2 thereof requires that the plaintiff shall include the whole of his claim in the framing of the suit.
Lastly it noticed that during the pendency of the suit the Goa, Daman & Diu Agricultural Tenancy Act, 1964 (hereinafter called 'the Act ') was amended by Act 17 of 1976 dated October 14,1976 known as the Fifth Amendment which was brought into effect from April 20, 1976 by which the definition of 'agriculture ' was changed and the expressions 'garden ' and 'garden produce ' were defined by the insertion of sub sections (7A).
Feeling aggrieved by the order of dismissal of the appeal, the defendants preferred separate Second Appeals Nos.
That suit, however, came to be dismissed as the Trial Court came to the conclusion that the plaintiff was no more in possession of the property in respect of which he claimed to be a lessee.
In the subsequent suit the plaintiff contended that he had been forcibly dispossessed sometime in the second week of June, 1968 contrary to law even though his tenancy was subsisting and he had paid the first installment of rent for the year 1968.
27/88 and 31/88 which came to be allowed on April 5, 1991.
Taneja for the Respondents.
In Shah Yograj Kuverji Oil Mills and Ginning Factory vs Subhash Chandra Yograj Sinha, ; = ; the facts were that the landlord had filed a suit for eviction on April 25, 1957 in the regular court, i.e., the Court of the Joint Civil Judge (Junior Division), Erandol, which admittedly had jurisdiction to pass a decree for possession of the demised premises.
We would, however, like to add that in all such cases where the Civil Court cannot entertain the plea and accepts the objection that it has no jurisdiction to try it, it should not proceed to dismiss the suit straightaway.
Proceeding further the High Court takes the view that even after the Fifth Amendment came into force the plaintiff had not applied to the Mamlatdar for possession of the land within the period allowed by Section 18 of the Act and had, therefore, allowed the first defendant to become a deemed purchaser of the suit property on the strength of his tenancy.
It was for this technical reason that the suit was dismissed.
The law was silent as to how a dispute of this nature raised in a suit filed for eviction on the footing that the defendant is a trespasser should be dealt withby the Civil Court.
The first ground on which the High Court dismissed the suit is that the suit was barred by the principle of res judicata in view of the dismissal of the former suit No. 157/68.
This question squarely arose for consideration by the Bombay High Court in Dhondi Tukaram vs Hari Dadu AIR 1954 Bom 100 ILR wherein that court observed as under: "Therefore, we hold that in a suit filed against the defendant on the footing that he is a trespasser if he raises the plea that he is a tenant or a protected tenant, the Civil Court would have no jurisdiction to deal with that plea. .
With a view to preventing any such action on the part of the defendants he instituted the suit for an injunction to restrain them from so doing.
It also held that the suit was barred by res judicata as well as Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.
After that amendment came into force, the provisions of the Act became applicable to the lands in question which were primarily used for growing coconut trees and receiving produce therefrom.
Since the civil court had lost jurisdiction to decide the suit, the High Court dismissed it.
G.L. Sanghi Dhruv Mehta, Guru Raikar, S.K. Mehta and Arvind Verma for the Appellants.
One further situation which may arise under the provisions of the Act may be taken note of.
Since section 12 of the Rent Act was held to be prospective, the question which arose for consideration was whether its protection could be extended to tenants in pending litigation.
Sub section (2) of section 8 next provides that where any person as is referred to in section 4 (deemed tenant) has been evicted from the land on or after 1st July, 1962 such person shall be entitled to recover immediate possession of the land in the manner prescribed by or under the Act unless the landlord proves that the termination of tenancy was in the manner authorised by section 9.
In view of the foregoing discussion, we allow this appeal, set aside the order of the High Court which in either case lacked jurisdiction to decide the question regarding tenancy on merits and remit the matter to the Trial Court for further orders in the light of the observation hereinabove made.
1020 The defendants, besides contending that the suit was barred on the principle of res judicata and/or constructive res judicata as found in Order 2 Rule 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure, averred that on the expiry of the lease at the end of December, 1967 the lease stood terminated by efflux of time and defendant No. 2 was, therefore, entitled to let out the property to defendant No. 1 and hence the latter was in lawful possession of the said property The plaintiffs allegation that he was forcibly dispossessed was denied.
If a suit is filed to recover possession of agricultural land from a trespasser and no dispute arises, the adjudication whereof is required to be done by the special machinery set up under the Act, the Civil Court will continue to have jurisdiction.
However, during the pendency of the suit, a notification was issued under section 6 of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947, (hereinafter called 'the Rent Act ') applying Part II of the Act to areas where the property in question was situate.
That makes all the difference.
He had on October 26, 1968 instituted a suit No. 157 of 1968 for a declaration and an injunction to restrain the defendants from dispossessing him from the property known as 'Palmar Oiteral do Predio Aivao ' comprising seven lots of coconut grove situated at Caranzalem belonging to defendant No. 2.
Ever where a tenant apprehends that his possession is likely to be interfered with contrary to the provisions of the Act he can make an application in the prescribed manner to the Mamlatdar for safeguarding the, same.
Section 70(b) next provided that for the purposes of the Act, one of the duties and functions to be performed by the Mamlatdar is to decide whether a person is a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant.
However, the Act does not preclude the institution of a suit by a tenant for restoration of possession from a trespasser.
The High Court, therefore, held that the decree passed by the Civil Court was unsustainable.
So also where a tenant is evicted illegally, section 8(2) permits him to approach the Mamlatdar for recovery of possession.
By virtue of section 7 any question whether a person is a tenant or a deemed tenant was required to be decided by the Mamlatdar and the jurisdiction of the Civil Court stood ousted by section 58(2) of the Act.
We think that the proper procedure to adopt in such cases 1031 would be to direct the party who raises such a plea to obtain a decision from the Mamlatdar within a reasonable time.
