it has alleged in the plaint that the plaintiff appellant was wrongfully dispossessed from 160 acres of land along with the improvements which had been effected by him and as the state had appropriated those improvements without any right or title thereto he claimed the value of those improvements.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
it is the case of the appellant that even after the act was passed unauthorised occupants of land belonging to the government who had made improvements therein had under the rules made both under the act and the land assignment act a preferential claim over others for getting kuthakapattom or assignment of the property in their possession.
it may be mentioned that in respect of the 160 acres of land of the illom which were occupied by the appellant s father and the appellant there was a dispute between the illom and the travancore state from about 1848.
a while the application for registration was pending the dispute between the illom and the state of travancore had reached a stage when the illom had to institute a suit o section No.
126 of 1096.
an appeal against it was dismissed on september 27 1943.
112 of 1100 1925 a d as the suit of the illom had been finally disposed of and the title of the illom to the lands was not established the appellant apprehending that he might be ejected in the above l c case filed a suit.
in that suit an injunction was prayed for in respect of 100 acres of the property involved in the suit but the prayer was rejected.
against that order a civil miscellaneous appeal No 206 of 1110 m e 1934 35 a d was filed in the high court of travancore.
a rubbers state and a large number of other valuable trees like jack trees mango trees coconut trees etc.
it appears that as there was no injunction restraining his dispossession in l c case.
112 of 11 00 m e an order was passed for dispossessing the appellant on july 24 1939 ext.
in the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
the high court accepted the finding of the trial court on issue.
12 6 1094 the petitioner knew that the land was government land and had then applied for assignment of the land.
accordingly the high court found that at no time the occupation of the land by the appellant was under a bona fide claim of title.
another reason for disallowing the compensation for trees given by the high court was that the position of a trespasser whether he be a mere trespasser or a trespasser under a bona fide claim of title cannot be better than that of a tenant and that if this is correct then the appeal has to be dismissed on the short ground that there is no principle of law or equity which requires the payment of compensation in respect of trees the ownership of which was all along or at any rate from the dale of the trespasser s dispossession vested in the state.
from the lands from which he was evicted he would be entitled to claim compensation for the improvements made by him.
it may be stated that the finding that the possession of the appellant commenced after his application for registration was rejected in 1919 and the improvements if any must have been effected only thereafter with full knowledge that the title to the lands was in dispute between the illom and the government is unassailable.
a and also to the fact that after the application for registration was rejected the appellant tried to get himself impleaded in the suit filed by the illom against the state which application was also rejected and so the claim that his possession was bona fide or that he was a bona fide trespasser has no validity.
in view of this specific provision the contravention of which is punishable under section 6 thereof his conduct in applying for registration and for getting himself impleaded in the suit of the illom against the government would show that he knew that the land was government land or land in which the government had a claim.
it is however urged before us that the high court was in error in thinking that the appellant did not occupy the lands as a trespasser with a bona fide claim of title because it was his case that he trespassed upon the land with a bona fide intention to improve the land and as such he can still be considered as a bona fide trespasser entitled to improvements under the general law.
before dealing with this aspect we will first consider the question whether trees are included within the meaning of section 9 so as to entitle the appellant to a notice of forfeiture there under.
it is stated before us that at the time when the appellant was evicted the transfer of property act was not in force.
but this is not relevant as what has to be considered is whether trees can be said to be other product raised on the land.
but the meaning to be ascribed to that word is that it connotes in its larger signification products of the soil that are grown and raised yearly and are gathered during a single season.
in this sense the term includes fructus industrials and having regard to the etymology of the word it has been held to mean only products after they have been severed from the soil.
even under this definition product can not mean anything which is attached to the land like trees.
it may however include the fruit of the trees.
at the time of the distress the sum of pound 281 6 section was due from the plaintiffs to the defendant for rent in respect of the nursery ground.
in our view therefore trees are not included within the meaning of other products raised on the land in section 9 of the act and there is therefore no obligation on the government to give notice of forfeiture under that section.
it is then contended that even if trees are not included in section 9 and no notice of forfeiture is necessary under the general law even a trespasser on the land whether bona fide or not is entitled to compensation or damages for the improvements made by him on the land.
but the learned advocate for the appellant submits that it was not his case nor is it under the general law necessary for a person who trespassed on the land to trespass with a claim of bona fide title.
according to his submission a person is nevertheless a bona fide trespasser if he enters upon the land with a bona fide intention of improving the land.
it is true that the maxim of the english law quicquid plantatur solo solo cedit i e whatever is affixed to the soil belongs to the soil is.
it appears that the government had resolved to acquire the land in question and other lands and by arrangement with certain of the sutidars it took possession of such land including a portion which was in the occupation of the appellant.
both the assistant judge and the high court negatived the claim of the appellant.
before the privy council it was contended on behalf of the appellant that in the various cases relied upon there was at least some genuine claim or belief in the party erecting the buildings that he had a title to do so even though he was eventually held to be a trespasser and it was urged that no such claim or belief existed in that case in which it was said the government without any pretence of a right tortuously invaded the appellant s property and proceeded to deal with it as their own.
in his helplessness the plaintiff had even applied to government to give him the land in which he had effected improvements on kuthakapattom.
but out of the said land 160 acres were taken out of my possession and given to the 2nd defendant even without giving me the opportunity to remove the movable improvements such as cultivation cattle machines utensils houses stocked crops ripe crops etc belonging to me.
as it has now been contended before us.
even in paragraph 4 of the plaint where he complains that no notice of forfeiture was given to him he mentions only the items referred to in paragraph 3.
in it has been held that the appellant was not a mere trespasser and had deliberately entered upon the lands knowing full well that he had no right claim or title to the lands or had in any manner a right to enter the land and has been rightly evicted as a trespasser he can not now be permitted to raise this contention before us.
in the view we have taken the appeal has no substance and is accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs but the court fee will be recovered from the appellant.
appeal dismissed.
