on april 241954sen.
on october 241980sen raleigh was nationalized and got vested in the appellant corporation by publication of the notification under idr act.
on march 51982the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant that in the absence of a new agreement they were instructing their advocate to prevent the appellant by restraint proceedings to use the trade mark effective from april 11982.
on march 241982the appellant made an application under sections 3246 and 56 of the act against the respondents in the high court of calcutta in suit no 26692 pleading inter alia that the respondents had failed to provide technical assistance by passing the technical know how to sen raleigh after november 11976 neither the appellant nor sen raleigh were registered users of the trade mark after november 11976.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
by proceedings dated june 131984the registrar of trade marks informed the appellant that the registered user s applications were abandoned since the appellant failed to comply with the statutory requirements.
after termination of the collaboration and user agreement between the appellant and the respondents it was likely to cause confusion and deception amongst the trade and public.
on appeal the division bench in appeal no 1391 confirmed the same holding that on and from october 251980the respondent had allowed and permitted the appellant to manufacture bicycles etc according its specifications and to pass off the goods under their trade marks.
non registration of the user agreement by sen raleigh and the appellant was due to the default of the latter.
in view of the appellant s conduct it was taking advantage of its own wrong.
the respondents admittedly did not use the same.
he further contended that the special circumstances enumerated in sub s 3 of s 46 must be such that the respondents had intended to use the registered trade mark.
in normal circumstances when it is established that the trade mark was not used either by the registered proprietor or the permitted user the public interest of supply of the quality of the goods marketed by the appellant should be taken into factual consideration for removal of the trade mark from the register.
it would also be considered as a special circumstance for non user.
s 461b reads as under.
46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1.
it would thus be apparent that subject to section 46for a registered trade mark up to date within one month before the date of making application for rectification for a continuous period of 5 years or longer if registered trade mark had not been use during that period there was no bona fide user in relation to those goods by the proprietor thereof for the time being.
it means the use of the trade mark by a registered user of the trade mark in relation to good with which he is connected in the course of trade and in respect of which the trade mark remains registered for the time being and for which he is registered as a registered user and which complies with any conditions or restrictions to which the registration of the trade marks is subjected to.
it would therefore be clear that a permitted use of the trade mark should be done under sub s 1 of section 48 it.
it is not in dispute that till date of filing of the application the appellant used the trade mark in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent.
on admitted position and in the facts and circumstances we are of the view that the appellant was a ago user of the trade mark of the respondent in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent who admittedly is a registered proprietor.
it is true as held by this court that to get a trade mark registered without any intention to use it in relation to any goods but merely to make money out of it by selling it to others the right to use it as a commodity would be trafficking in that trade mark.
it is seen that preceding the nationalization of the cycle manufacturing industry under the idr act the respondent had a collaboration agreement with sen raliegh who was a registered user under section 48 from him the appellant came to succeed by statutory operation.
it is true that u s 431 either the registered proprietor or a permitted person is required to register as permitted user.
it appears that even an unregistered licensee so long as there is unbroken connection in the course of the trade between the licensor and the passing off lincesee s goods under the trade mark there would be sufficient connection in the course of the trade between the proprietor and bona fide user of the trade mark by unregistered user.
it must therefore be held that though the deemed presumption under sub s 2 of s 48 is referable to the permitted user or the registered user and it does not extend to unregistered permitted user the connecting link of passing off the goods between the licensor s trade mark and the lincesee should bona fide be with the permission or consent which may be express or implied by long course of dealings.
it would connect the registered proprietor and the user of the trade mark by the unregistered lincesee.
in k r beri and co vs.
co pvt limited and anr.
it is true that the burden flies on the registered proprietor of the trade mark to establish the exceptions provided under s 463 equally the applicant for rectification also prima facie shows non user for the relevant period.
it must be shown that the non use of the trade mark is due to special circumstances of the trade and not due to some other cause which would have operated whether the special circumstances had arisen off not.
although the special circumstances of trade taken by themselves would have prevented the use of the trade mark.
if the non user was in fact due to some other circumstances and would have occured whether the circumstances had followed or not subs 3 would not apply.
it must therefore be duty of the registered proprietor to show what non user was strictly due to the special circumstances of trade and not of any intention on the part of the registered proprietor not to use the trade mark during the relevant period.
it is also not necessary to go into the question whether the application filed by the appellant u s 481 and its pendency would be a special circumstance in favour of the respondent.
is not attracted to the facts in this case.
it is true that while exercising discretion the court u s 46 of the act should take into consideration not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest in para 21 82 at page 386 of the law of trade marks and passing off by p narayanan 4th ed it is stated that the court or the registrar has discretion in granting or refusing an application for rectification.
ordinarily however the mark will be expunged taken off when the factual circumstances necessary for the removal are established unless it is shown that the case comes within the exceptions provided in the sub section 3 the high court refused to exercise the discretion to strike off the trade mark from the register.
it is seen that the appellant had not abandoned at any point of time the use of the trade mark of the respondent registered proprietor till filing of the application.
it is not relevant for the purpose of s 461b whether the bicycles were manufactured with the assistance of technical know how passed on by sen raleigh or the permitted user.
in these circumstances we are of the view that the high court has properly exercised its discretion and refused to rectify and strike off the trade mark from the register of trade marks of the registrar.
