a learned single judge of the calcutta high court passed a preliminary decree in the said suit on 11 8 1960 one of the co sharers of the sarkar family preferred an appeal against the preliminary decree before the division bench which was registered as appeal no200 of 1960 during the pendency of the aforesaid appeal the state of west.
bengal requisitioned large extent of fisheries including the disputed nalban fishery on 5 11 1969 in exercise of power under section 31 of the west bengal land requisition and acquisition act of 1948 hereinafter referred to as the requisition act pursuant to the aforesaid requisition order the state of west bengal took possession of the nalban fishery on 8 11 1969 members of the sarkar family challenged the order of requisition by filing a writ petition in calcutta high court in november1969 which was registered as civil rule no 7317 w of 1969 the aforesaid writ petition was dismissed by the learned single judge.
this court dismissed the special leave petition.
pursuant to the aforesaid order appointing collector 24 parganas as receiver.
it may be noticed at this stage that bansilal farms appellant in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992 was the highest offerer for running the boating complex on the surface water of nalban fishery and had been granted licence for that purpose and in fact had started the operation of the boating complex since 1991 but on the application of mrs dhira mitra one of the co sharers of the sarkar family the high court having issued an order of injunction the farm is no longer operating.
mr harish salve the learned senior counsel for the state of west bengal.
it was further contended that this court while giving affect to the compromise arrived at between the sarkar family made it explicitely clear that the said compromise will not in any way affect the rights of the state over the fisheries even if those fisheries agreed to be divided between the parties and in that view of the matter and the state of west bengal having already requisitioned the nalban fishery and having taken possession of the same the receiver could not have taken possession of the said nalban fishery pursuant to the order of this court appointing the collector 24 parganas as receiver and.
bengal contended that the state being the owner of nalban fishery and having vested the management and control thereof with the state fishery development corporation and the said corporation having decided to use the tank fishery for a boating complex and the bansilal farms being the highest bidder and having been granted the right to have a boating complex therein and he having invested a huge sum of money his rights can not be taken away in the dispute between the state and the sarkar family.
jaideep gupta learned counsel appearing for the respondents on the other hand condented that the decree passed by the supreme court in the partition suit amongst the members of the sarkar family on the basis of a compromise arrived at between the parties would bind the state of west bengal as the decree has been passed in presence of the state who was impleaded as a party.
judged from this view there is no infirmity with the direction issued by the learned single judge as well as division bench of the calcutta high court warranting interference by this court.
gupta also contended that the order of the high court of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 23 9 1980 directing the receiver to allow m s ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots and thereafter carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect thereof has become final the same not having been challenged by the state of west.
on the question of vesting of the tank fishery under the amended provisions of the west bengal land reforms act mr.
in this connection he had further urged that this question had not been raised before the high court.
in view of the rival submissions at the bar the first question that arises for consideration is whether in the suit for partition amongst the members of the sarkar family which was ultimately disposed of by a compromise decree in this court nalban fishery had been allotted to some members of the sarkar family and whether such decree would affect the rights of the state and bind the state of west.
bengal.
it is also not disputed that the state of west bengal though was not a party to the suit but in course of proceeding before this court by an order of the court the said state of west bengal was impleaded as a party.
bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they are vested in the state under the provisions of west bengal estates acquisition act1953.
it would be appropriate at this stage to extract this part of the decree passed by this court in view of the foregoing we again wish to re emphasize that the terms the decree shall not affect the rights of the state of west bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they have vested in the state under the provisions of the west bengal estates acquisition act1953 act x of 1954.
from the report submitted by the receiver it transpired that the district magistrate 24 parganas who was appointed as receiver took possession of several fisheries including nalban fishery obviously on the impression that the lease in respect of the said fishery which had been granted by the sarkar family had lapsed.
from the order in question which has been annexed as annexure p to the special leave petition c no 13314 of 1992it appears that the order was passed on the application on one of the members of sarkar family mr pulak sarkar.
no reasons have been given by the learned judge in issuing the said directing and on the other hand the order appears to be bald order calling upon and thereafter carry out the directions of the honourable supreme court in respect of the same.
the aforesaid order can not be held to operate as res judicata taking away the rights of the state of west.
bengal in respect of the nalban fishery as the state was not a party to the proceedings.
besides the direction of the learned judge to the effect the collector24 paraganas is directed to allow messers ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots.
after such demarcation is made the commissioner of partition is directed to approve the same and carry out the direction of the honble supreme court in respect thereof.
does not in any way take away rights of the state of west.
in view of our earlier conclusion that the rights and interest of the state of west bengal was not in any way be affected by the so called partition and allotment of the nalban fishery inter se amongst the members of the sarkar family the said order dated 63 10 1980 passed by the learned single judge of the calcutta high court will not stand on the way of the state in claiming and putting forth its interest and right over the nalban fishery.
the contention of mr gupta appearing for the respondents therefore cannot be sustained.
by virtue of the extended definition of land in section 2 7 and the amended provisions of section 3a of the land reforms act tank fishery like nalban fishery come within the definition of and it vests in the state by operation of section 31 read with section 14.
in view of our aforesaid conclusions the impugned directions of the learned single judge as well as of the division bench are set aside and these appeals are allowed.
there will be no order as to costs.
