in the opinion of one learned judge the circumstantial evidence on which rests the prosecution case was not sufficient to record a finding of guilty against the appellant on any of the charges framed against him.
kumari s a young child aged about 5 years was last seen at about 4 p m on 18th march 1991 and thereafter she did not return home.
a noose was also found around her neck.
offence was registered under sections 302 and 376 ipc.
the inves tigation commenced.
it was found that the victim was brutally ravished and thereafter killed.
according to the medical opinion the probable cause of death of s was shock produced due to vaginal trauma and rupture of post fornix along with asphyxia due to ligature around the neck.
all injuries found on the person of the victim could be around 6 of 24 hours old prior to the time of post mortem examina tion.
on 4 4 1991 he was medically examined.
he was a grown up male of 21 years and capable of performing sexual intercourse.
on 5 4 1991 at about 12 30 p m he gave an information exbt.
and in confirmation of the information led the police to a dry well wherefrom an underwear and baniyan wrapped in a newspaper dated 18 3 1991 were recovered.
according to report exbt.
human semen was detected on underwear.
in dhananjoy chatterjee v state of west bengal 1994 2 scc 220 1994 indlaw sc 1743 wherein one of us dr a s anand j as his lordship then was spoke for the bench.
it needs no reminder that legally estab lished circumstances and not merely indignation of the court can form the basis of conviction and the more serious the crime the greater should be the care taken to scrutinize the evidence lest suspicion takes the place of proof.
in dhananjoy chatterjee s case 1994 indlaw sc 1743 supra the decision of this court in sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 was relied on.
in the later case it was also held that a false explanation or false plea taken by the accused can be used as an additional link in the chain of circumstantial evidence subject to satisfication of three essential conditions namely i various links in the chain of evidence led by the prosecution have been satisfactorily proved ii the said circumstance points to the guilt of the accused with reasonable definiteness and iii the circumstance is in proxim ity to the time and situation.
i last seen together on the point of last seen together there is solitary testimony of a child witness shalu pw7 aged about 4 years on 23 3 1992 the date of her examination in the court.
on asking a few questions by way of preliminary examination the learned trial judge found that the witness could answer some of the questions.
it is this testimony which has been relied upon by the trial court as also by the high court as the evidence of last seen together.
from the evi dence of shalu pw7 such an inference can not be drawn.
goma to whose shop the three girls had gone to buy balloon has not been examined.
he gave an evasive answer saying that the fact that shalu was accompanying s must have come in the staement of the witnesses.
he was further asked to name the witness in whose statement shalu s reference was available but the investigation officer drew a blank and could not tell the name of the witness from whom any clue as to shalu was received by him.
during cross examination kalu ram stated that the accused was his neighbour previously known to him.
on a pertinent question the witness stated that while making such a query there was no change in the facial expression of the accused that is he had remained normal.
harish chand sharma pw21 stated that between 19th and 25th march 1991 the accused subhash was called at the police station several times for making enquiries.
he did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
however the accused was not detained and was sent back.
any person even if innocent and not connected in any way with a gruesome crime which had recently occurred and was talk of the town if called by police and interrogated as a suspect would be scared and be apprehensive of the likelihood of his being implicated in the crime.
insofar as baniyan is concerned it has no stains of any type on it and therefore its discovery and seizure is meaningless and irrelevant.
blood sam ple of the accused was not collected and therefore not grouped.
no evidence is available to show as to what was the blood group of the accused and therefore the possibility of blood on the underwear being of the accused himself can not be and is not ruled out.
sc 765 1980 indlaw sc 47.
one of the circumstan tial evidence relied on was that a human blood stain of b group was found on the accused s pant which blood group was also of the deceased.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
in diameter on the appellant s pant and of a dried stain of semen on his under pant were circumstances for too feeble to establish that the appellant raped or murdered the victim.
b group is not uncommon group of blood and no effort was made to exclude the possibility that the blood of the accused belonged to the same group.
as regards the dried stain of semen on the appellant s under pant the court observed that the accused was a grown up man of 30 years and no compelling inference could arise that the stain was caused during the course of the sexual assault committed by him on the victim girl.
on his arrest he was subjected to medical examination and found to be a potent and capable person.
false plea of alibi.
although the dead body of the victim was found on the outskirts of the village however there is no material available on record to fix the place and the likely time at which rape was committed on s and then she was murdered.
literal meaning of alibi is elsewhere.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
denial by an accused of an assertion made by his employer that the accused was on leave of absence from duty on the date of offence does not by any stretch of reasoning or logic amount to pleading alibi.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
if the accused was arrested at behror there is no reason why the memo of arrest should not have been prepared at village behror.
at least this fact should have been mentioned in the memo of arrest even if the same was prepared at village kotputli.
kalu ram pw5 accompanied by a friend santosh pw9 had gone to see a movie in cinema talkies heera moti two days after the date of the incident and there the accused was present on his duty.
hence it could not have been held that the accused was absconding.
conclusion.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit s case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
before parting with the case we would like to place on record an observation of ours touching an aspect of the case.
a vigilant investigating officer well versed with the techniques of the job is in a position to collect the threads of evidence finding out the path which leads to the culprit.
he is acquitted of the charges framed against him.
he shall be set at liberty forthwith if not required to be detained in connection with any other offence.
appeals allowed.
