aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
ltd ghaziabad and m s rich food products p ltd noida.
it was declared that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
it was stated that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was using the aforestated trade mark meghraj for the manufacture of biscuits.
ltd had put up a unit for manufacture of wafers in noida which it sought to manufacture under the brand name meghraj.
at this stage it may be noted that the appellants herein claim to have started manufacture of biscuits in 1991 the biscuits were sold in wrapper mentioning the name of the appellantsm s.
he came to the conclusion vide his orders that the trade name meghraj was in the form of a logo printed on the wrapper of the biscuits and therefore the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 as amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 consequently the adjudicating authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992.
it was held that the word meghraj was printed on all the printed wrappers and therefore it was wrong to say that the appellants were not using the brand name meghraj on its products.
in this connection reliance was placed by the commissioner a on the said agreement dated 22 11 89 before the commissioner a the appellants herein contended that they had used the name m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd on the wrapper and not on the product.
and therefore they were entitled to exemption.
before the commissioner ait was argued in the alternative that the logo belonged to m s.
kay aar biscuits p ltd.
accordingly the commissioner a dismissed the appeals.
hence these civil appeals.
ltd and m s.
in the rectification application.
it was further pointed out that in fact the appellants had applied for ownership of the brand name meghraj vide application dated 30 9 91 to the registrar trade marks under the trade marks act and that the said application for registration was pending before the competent authority and since the above arguments were not recorded in the impugned order of the cegat dated 11 4 2000 the same warranted rectification.
by order dated 8 12 2000cegat rejected the above rectification application made by the appellants.
in the present case as stated above m s kay aar biscuits p ltd entered into an agreement on 22 11 89 with m s rich food products p ltd under that agreement the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd declared that his company was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
he is the director of the appellants company also.
further there is no evidence to show as to whether m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was an eligible manufacturer.
it was urged that a mere agreement between two parties can not constitute ownership of the trade mark in favour of m s it was urged that in any event m s kay aar biscuits p ltd had stopped its production in 1993 that the company had become defunct that the appellants herein had applied to the registrar of trade marks for registration of the mark meghraj and vide registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 the registrar has recognized the appellants as owner of the trade mark with effect from 30 9 91 in the circumstances the appellants submitted that the demand for differential duty was unwarranted.
in the case of pahwa chemicals pvt.
commissioner of central excise delhi 2005 189.
elt 257 2005 indlaw sc 799sc.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
in the case of commissioner of central excise chandigarh v bhalla enterprises 2004.
elt 225 2004 indlaw sc 996scthis court held that the assessee will not be entitled to the benefit of exemption if it uses on goods in question same similar brand name with intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person or uses the name in such manner that it would indicate such connection.
it was further held that the burden is on the assessee to satisfy the adjudicating authority that there was no such intention.
applying the above test to the facts of the present case madan verma is a common director in the two companies.
he has filed an affidavit enclosing the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000.
however in that affidavit he has not stated as to on what basis in the agreement of 23 11 89 signed by him he had declared that m s ltd is the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
before us it has been urged that m s ltd is non functional since 1 3 93 and therefore in any event appellants were entitled to use the trade mark meghraj.
discontinuation of business in respect of a product does not necessarily amount to abandonment.
in the present case there is no evidence from the side of the appellants indicating abandonment of the trade mark by m s although madan verma the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd has filed his affidavit enclosing the registration certificate he has nowhere stated that m s ltd has abandoned the trade mark.
in the circumstances the department was right in rejecting the above contention.
law in india under our present act is similar.
a person may become a proprietor of a trade mark in diverse ways.
before the deputy registrar and before mr justice shah proprietorship was claimed on the basis that the applicant was entitled to it as an importer s mark.
in our opinion it is not necessary in this case to go into details about facts in the various decided cases dealing with importer s marks.
in short it was a competition between a foreign trader and the indian importer for the proprietorship of that mark in this country.
in the present case issuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect from 30 9 91 will not tantamount to conferment of exemption benefit under the excise law once it is found that the appellants had wrongly used the trade mark of m s.
in the case of consolidated foods corporation v brandon and co.
air 1965 bombay 35 1961 indlaw mum 91it has been held vide paras 27 and 30 that the trade marks act merely facilitates the mode of proof.
as already stated by me while referring to the observations of sir john romily it is not really necessary for me to decide in this case as to whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark for the purpose of deciding this case.
in cases of such marks whereas the courts of equity did require some slight user before the proprietor thereof could institute an action for infringement thereof the statute enabled the registration of such mark without any user at all because such mark being distinctive per se it was not necessary for the person applying for its registration to show that mark had acquired a reputation in the market so that it could be associated only with his goods and of nobody else.
in in re century spinning and manufacturing co ltd.
air 1947 bom 445chagla j as he then was observed in this connection as follows the question is whether in india the trade marks act of 1940 has made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark.
gaw kan lye v saw kyone saing air 1939.
fb registration under the statute does not confer any new right to the mark claimed or any greater right than what already existed at common law and at equity without registration.
it does however facilitate a remedy which may be enforced and obtained throughout the state and it established the record of facts affecting the right to the mark.
common law rights are left wholly unaffected.
it was next contended by mr shavaksha that the respondent company had itself shown kipre and co private ltd.
it was conceded by mr shah that the labels which were used on the food products manufactured by kipre and co private ltd did bear the name of kipre and co private ltd immediately below the mark monarch and that the respondent company s name was printed below it as sole distributors.
it was clearly provided that the mark monarch belonged to the respondent company that kipre and co private ltd were only to manufacture the food products as ordered by the respondent company and that the food products so manufactured were to be bottled and packed by them for its use and benefit and that therefore in spite of kipre and co s name appearing on the labels the respondent company was the true proprietor of the mark monarch and that therefore it was entitled to apply for its registration as proprietor thereof.
if these two names had stood by themselves without any further description of either of them it could be said that both kipre and co and the respondent company were jointly the owners of the mark as well as the owners of the goods to which the label was affixed.
but that is not the case.
it is true as contended by mr shah that even distributors and sellers may have marks of their own but then there are ways and ways of indicating on the label itself that the mark embodied therein is the mark belonging to such distributor or seller.
before concluding we may refer to the judgment of this court in the case of commissioner of central excise mumbai v bigen industries ltd 2006 197.
305 2006 indlaw sc 546 in that matter a show cause notice was issued calling upon the assessee to show cause why the exemption be not denied to the assessee.
in para 19 of the show cause notice the authority accepted the existence of a deed of assignment.
however the show cause notice denied the exemption on the ground that notification no 14083 ce did not make any distinction between a brand name owned by a person in india or abroad.
in the present case there is no deed or assignment from m s ltd to the m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd appellants herein as stated above there is no proof of acquisition on payment or consideration by the appellants to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd in the present case there is no evidence of assignment or licence from m s ltd to the appellants.
in the circumstances the judgment of this court in the case of bigen industries 2006 indlaw sc 546 supra has no application.
for the aforestated reasons we do not find any merit in these civil appeals.
before concluding we may point out that we do not wish to express any opinion on the subsequent events which have taken place in this case.
accordingly the civil appeals stand dismissed with no order as to costs.
appeals dismissed.
