indisputably dr kota shivarama karanth for shortdr.
he developed a new form of yakshagana.
he was a director of the appellant institute.
ganga charitha.
ever since 1974 till now in my old age she has been serving me with exemplary devotion and sincerity.
and she has cared and looked after me also during my illness which at times had been quite serious enfeebling me for long period.
in recognition of her devotion and sincere affection towards me in 1986 i have dedicated one of my novels namelyantida aparanji to her.
i have also placed on record her invaluable services to me in my memoirshunchu mansina hathu mukhagalu 1991 edition.
in my opinion very long enduring and a signal service she has done to me and to my literary works is in writing a bibliography of all my books a highly meritorious and scholarly work involving so much of pains taking research that it has been acclaimed and rated as the first of its kind in kannada and highly appreciated by critics and scholars.
apart from this she has collected and edited all my stray writings from 1924 onwards up to date in eight sumptuous volumes which are being published by mangalore university.
for all these services i hereby declare that after my death copyrights in respect of all my literary works shall vest with smt.
any outstanding due to me and bank deposits and whatever assets or properties not mentioned above that is residuary after my death shall belong to smt.
1000 00 2 directing the defendants to pay to the plaintiff damages of rs 15000 towards infringement of her copyright on account of stating or performing abhimanyu vadha on 18 9 2001 at new delhi.
appellants in their written statement however denied and disputed any copyright of the said dance in dr karanth alleging that whatever work he had done was in the capacity of a director of the kendra with the assistance finance and staff provided by the organization of mahatma gandhi memorial college trust in respect whereof a committee was formed under him by the board of trustees.
by reason of a judgment and decree dated 14 11 2003the district judge udupi decreed the said suit declaring the plaintiff respondent as a person having the exclusive copyright in respect of seven prasangas and that she had acquired the same by reason of a will as a residuary legatee and the defendants appellants or their employees or agents were restrained from performing the said seven ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by dr karanth.
appellants aggrieved thereby and dissatisfied therewith preferred an appeal before the karnataka high court which was marked as r f a no 271 of 2004.
by reason of the impugned judgment and order dated 5 12 2007the said appeal has been dismissed.
i the copyright in the literary work has been assigned by reason of the said will in favour of the respondent in terms of clause 12 of the will.
ii dr karanth has made substantial changes in the original traditional form of the yakshagana dance.
additions made in the form of the said dance including the prasangas fell within the purview of originality in respect whereof copyright could be claimed.
i keeping in view of the findings of the learned trial judge it ought to have been held that no cause of action arose against the appellants in this case as the institution had performed the said dance at new delhi in the memory of dr karanth without charging any fees.
explanation.
22 term of copyright in published literary dramatic musical and artistic works.
except as otherwise hereinafter provided copyright shall subsist in any literary dramatic musical or artistic work other than a photograph published within the life time of the author until fifty years from the beginning of the calendar year following the year in which the author dies.
explanation in this section the reference to the author shall in the case of a work of joint authorship be construed as a reference to the author who dies last.
23 term of copyright in anonymous and pseudonymous works  1.
in sub section 1references to the author shall in the case of an anonymous work of joint authorship be construed.
a where the identity of the authors is disclosed as references to that author.
b where the identity of more authors than one is disclosed as references to the author who dies last from amongst such authors.
in sub section 1references to the author shall in the case of a pseudonymous work of joint authorship be construed.
a where the names of one or more but not all of the authors arc pseudonymous and his or their identity is not disclosed as references to the author whose name is not a pseudonym or if the names of two or more of the authors are not pseudonyms as references to such of those authors who dies last b where the names of one or more but not all of the authors arc pseudonyms and the identity of one or more of them is disclosed as references to the author who dies last from amongst the authors whose names are not pseudonyms and the authors whose names are pseudonyms and are disclosed and c where the names of all the authors arc pseudonyms and the identity of one of them is disclosed as references to the author whose identity is disclosed or if the identity of two or more of such authors is disclosed as references to such of those authors who dies last.
certain acts not to be infringement of copyright  1.
before adverting to the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties we may notice the issues framed in the suit which are i does plaintiff prove that late dr shivaramaji karanth had acquired copyright in respect of seven yakshagana prasangas and also in respect of yakshagana dramatic or theatrical form i e bhishma.
does the plaintiff prove that her right under the said will was infringed by the defendants.
however we may notice that whereas the trial court has proceeded on the basis that clause 12 of the will shall apply in the instant case the high court opined that clause 11 thereof is attracted stating no doubt by reading para 12 of the will in isolation one can certainly arrive at the conclusion that the bequest made in favour of the plaintiff is in the nature of residuary bequest.
i therefore hold that the bequest of copyright in literary works and books in favour of the plaintiff by dr karanth will have to be treated as the bequest covering the dramatic works also since i have also drawn the conclusion that the dramatic works is also a form of literature.
broadly speaking a dramatic work may also come within the purview of literary work being a part of dramatic literature.
dramatic literature the texts of plays that can be read as distinct from being seen and heard in performance.
for the aforementioned reasons we agree with dr dhavan that paragraph 12 of the will namely residuary clause shall apply in the instant case apart from the areas which are otherwise covered by paragraph 11 of the will.
a declaratory decree therefore was passed.
for the said purpose it must be noticed as to what is a copyright and in respect of the matters the same can not be claimed or otherwise the same is lodged by conditions and subject to statutory limitation.
in r g anand vs m s delux films ors 1978.
4 scc 1181978 indlaw sc 294this court held thus on a careful consideration and elucidation of the various authorities and the case law on the subject discussed above the following propositions emerge 1 there can be no copyright in an idea subject matter themes plots or historical or legendary facts and violation of the copyright in such cases is confined to the form manner and arrangement and expression of the idea by the author of the copyrighted work.
if the defendant s work is nothing but a literal imitation of the copyrighted work with some variations here and there it would amount to violation of the copyright.
in other words in order to be actionable the copy must be a substantial and material one which at once leads to the conclusion that the defendant is guilty of an act of piracy.
3 one of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there has been a violation of copyright is to see if the reader spectator or the viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy of the original.
a violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy it must be proved by clear and cogent evidence after applying the various tests laid down by the case law discussed above.
7 where.
even so if the viewer after seeing the film gets a totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original play violation of the copyright may be said to be proved.
copyrighted material is that what is created by the author by his own skill labour and investment of capital maybe it is a derivative work which gives a flavour of creativity.
however in the facts and circumstances of the case there shall be no order as to costs.
appeal dismissed.
