the appellant is infosys technologies limited.
in january 2001the appellant filed yet another suit before the high court of judicature at madras for permanent injunction restraining the first respondent from offering shares to the public as claimed in the initial public offer ipo using infosys.
a whether the mark applied for registration was used in respect of the goods for which the mark was registered.
g whether the respondent has committed fraud while obtaining registration of the mark and.
hto what further relief.
in that suit the appellant also made an application for grant of temporary injunction.
i am of the opinion that in case ex parte ad interim orders are not granted the relief claimed itself may be rendered infructuous.
accordingly it is directed that pending further consideration of the matter after notice for the next date of hearing the defendants are restrained by themselves their directors employees agents andor others acting on its behalf from using the trade mark corporate name infosys or any other mark name deceptively similar trade mark or colourable imitation thereof as a mark andor corporate name or as part of a mark andor business name in respect of goods andor services for publicity on propaganda on websites and or in domain names in any way whatsoever thereby causing infringement of the registered trade mark infosys of the plaintiff in isolation or in combination with words letters numbers their advertisements as part of their corporate name either in isolation or in goods and services or in or by way of any advertisement publicity campaigns etc.
compliance of order xxxix rule 3 cpc within three days.
he contended that the first respondent is not shown to have ever traded or intended to trade in any goods covered by the appellant s registrations under classes 7 and 16 and as such the first respondent is not a person aggrieved with regard to the appellant s registrations under these two classes.
as regards class 9 he would submit that in view of the affidavit filed by the first respondent on july 142004 in the court of additional district judge delhi the first respondent ceases to be an aggrieved person on the date of consideration of the rectification application.
addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 and 2 kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances company ors 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
assailing the finding of the ipab as regards non use by the appellant during the relevant period learned counsel for the appellant argued that the said finding was erroneous on legal as well as factual premise.
he contended that the ipab erred in holding that software was a service and the subject registrations were in relation to goods without considering the wide definition of goods provided under section 2g of the 1958 act.
akhil sibal argued that the ipab committed grave error in relying upon the provisions of the 1999 act and the trade marks rules2002 when these provisions were not applicable as the applications were filed under the 1958 act.
akhil sibal learned counsel also argued that the ipab failed to have regard to the proviso to section 461in terms of which it is open to the registered proprietor to rely upon use of the registered trade mark during the relevant period in relation to goods of the same descriptionin order to resist an application for rectification.
he contended that the ipab failed to apply proper legal tests for determining goods of the same description and had that been done it would be evident that computer software amounts to goods of the same description as computer hardware.
in this regard he relied upon m s eagle potteries.
6 rpc 311.
he argued that the ipab ought to have considered whether use of mark infosys by the first respondent on computer hardware would create confusion in the mind of the consumers that they might be led to believe that the said hardware is manufactured by the appellant.
in reply to the arguments of learned counsel for the appellant mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent strenuously urged that the plea of aggrieved person is a new plea and raised substantially for the first time before this court.
he argued that the appellant has not taken the plea of the first respondent not being a person aggrieved with respect to filing of the applications for rectification before the ipab merely urging the plea that the first respondent has no locus standi in the written submissions before the ipab is not sufficient.
he also placed reliance upon some more decisions viz ritz hotel ltd 1989.
d 92 and motor terms company pty limited v.
he argued that in a case such as the present one since the allegations against the appellant relate to trafficking squatting and non user the scope of person aggrieved has to be enlarged.
he vehemently contended that goods in classes 79 and 16 for which the appellant obtained registration were never used in the manner contemplated by the 1958 act for almost 30 years and that would show the mala fide intention of the appellant in having the same registered for the purpose of squatting and trafficking.
anr air 1978 mad 336 he submitted that appellant is primarily in service industry which is unregistrable under the 1958 act and since the appellant is not trading in the goods in respect of which it is registered it can not be said that the mark of the appellant is distinctive of its goods.
in any case learned counsel would submit that the expression infosys is not descriptive expression.
having regard to the order that we intend to make we are not persuaded to accept the objection raised on behalf of the first respondent that present appeal preferred directly before this court from the impugned order passed by the ipab is not maintainable and must be dismissed as such.
apart from it on september 122005 after hearing both parties special leave was granted by this court.
47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a that the trade mark was registered without any bona fide intention on the part of the applicant for registration that it should be used in relation to those goods by him or in a case to which the provisions of section 45 apply by the company concerned and that there has in fact been no bona fide use of the trade mark in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being up to a date one month before the date of the application or b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered 18 and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub section 3 of section 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application under clause a or clause b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevant date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
2 where in relation to any goods in respect of which a trade mark is registered a the circumstances referred to in clause 1 of sub section 1 are shown to exist so far as regards non use of the trade mark in relation to goods to be sold or otherwise traded in in a particular place in india otherwise than for export from indiaor in relation to goods to be exported to a particular market outside india and b a person has been permitted under sub section 3 of section 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of those goods under a registration extending to use in relation to goods to be so sold or otherwise traded in or in relation to goods to be so exported or the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark on application by that person in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar the tribunal may impose on the registration of the first mentioned trade mark such limitations as it thinks proper for securing that that registration shall cease to extend to such use 19 3.
an applicant shall not be entitled to rely for the purpose of clause b of sub section 1 or for the purposes of sub section 2 on any non use of a trade mark which is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade and not to any intention to abandon or not to use the trade mark in relation to the goods to which the application relates.
a likelihood of some injury or damage to the applicant by such trade mark remaining on the register may meet the test of locus standi.
in kerly s law of trade marks and trade names 11th edition at page 166the legal position with regard to person aggrieved has been summarized thus the persons who are aggrieved are all persons who are in some way or the other substantially interested in having the mark removed where it is a question of removal from the register including all persons who would be substantially damaged if the mark remained and all trade rivals over whom an advantage was gained by a trader who was getting the benefit of a registered trade mark to which he was not entitled.
although both sections namely sections 46 and 56 require person aggrieved to apply for removal of the registered trade mark from the register or rectification of a trade mark in the register the expression person aggrieved for the purposes of these two sections has different connotations.
in hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 2003 11 scc 92this court stated as follows the phrase person aggrieved is a common enough statutory precondition for a valid complaint or appeal.
in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under section 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in section 56 for cancelling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
an applicant must therefore show that in some possible way he may be damaged or injured if the trade mark is allowed to stand and by possible i mean possible in a practical sense and not merely in a fantastic view.
all cases of this kind where the original registration is not illegal or improper ought to be considered as questions of common sense to a certain extent at any rate and i think the applicants ought to show something approaching a sufficient or proper reason for applying to have the trade mark expunged.
addisons application was one under section 46 and the test to determine whether the applicant was a person aggrieved within the meaning of that section should have been the one laid down by romer j in wright case and not the one propounded by the house of lords in the matter of powell s trade mark.
15 rpc 677which has been reproduced in the report.
in our considered view it was.
in our view the grievance of the applicant when he invokes section 461 must not only be taken to have existed on the date of making application but must continue to exist when such application is decided.
in re apollinaris company s trade marks while dealing with this aspect kekemich j stated because that is a remedy given to the person aggrieved through the interposition of the court for the benefit of the 14 1891 2 ch 186 27 applicant and if at the date of the trial he has no cause of complaint it seems to be monstrous to suppose that the court will rectify the register at his instance when it can do him no good to rectify and when the retention on the register can do him no harm merely because at the date of his application he may have had some grievance.
appeals allowed.
