one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
ramalakshmi had married the plaintiff and had a number of children from him.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
before his death he executed a will on 16th november 1924 the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
by this will he gave the following directions after my lifetime you the aforesaid ranganayaki amminal my wife shall till your lifetime enjoy the aforesaid entire properties the outstandings due to me the debts payable by me and the chit amounts payable by me.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
on 21st february 1928 she settled the maintenance claim of lakshmi ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of rs 3350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of rs 240 per annum.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
a prayer was made that the widow be restrained from alienating the other properties in her possession.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband s estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow s estate and whether the daughter s interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
the subordinate judge held that the widow took under the will a limited life interest and not an absolute estate or even a widow s estate under hindu law and that the daughter got there under a vested interest in the properties to which the plaintiff succeeded on her death.
during the pendency of the appeal the widow died on 14th february 1948.
the decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator s intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life estate or an estate analogous to that of a hindu widow.
at one time it was a moot point whether a hindu widow s estate could be created by will it being an estate created by law but it is now settled that a hindu can confer by means of a will oil his widow the same estate which she would get by inheritance.
in other words to ascertain his wishes by putting itself so to say in his armchair.
considering the will in the light of these principles it seems to us that lakshminarayan iyer intended by his will to direct that his entire properties should be enjoyed by his widow during her lifetime but her interest in these properties should come to an end on her death that all these properties in their entirety should thereafter be enjoyed as absolute owners by his daughter and her heirs with powers of alienation gift exchange and sale from generation to generation.
he wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue male or female may have the benefit of his property.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
if the testator had before his mind s eye his daughter and her heirs as the ultimate beneficiaries of his bounty that intention could only be achieved by giving to the widow a limited estate because by conferring a full hindu widow s estate on her the daughter will only have a mere spes successions under the hindu law which may or may not mature and under the will her interest would only be a contingent one in what was left indisposed of by the widow.
if that was the intention the testator would clearly have said that the daughter would only take the properties remaining after the death of the widow.
as above pointed out admittedly power of alienation in express terms was not conferred on her.
by this transaction she substituted one property by another.
for the purpose of her maintenance for payment of debts etc and for settling the claim of the daughter in law she does not appear to have felt any necessity to make any alienation of any part of the estate mentioned in the schedule and the testator in all likelihood knew that she could fulfil these obligations without having recourse to alienations and hence he did not give her any power to do so.
in our opinion even if that suggestion is accepted that for the limited purposes mentioned in the will the widow could alienate this power would fall far short of the powers that a hindu widow enjoys under hindu law.
but she had no power to deal with the corpus of the estate.
according to jarman jarman on wills the law leans in favour of vesting of estates and the property disposed of belongs to the object of the gift when the will takes effect and we think the daughter got under this will a vested interest in the testator s properties on his death.
but there were other indications in that will showing that a widow s estate had been given.
the fact that the gift over was a contingent bequest was by itself taken as a sure indication that the preceding bequest was that of a widow s estate.
a suit was instituted by the son s daughter for the recovery of possession of her share in one item of property forming part of the estate which had been sold by section the question for decision in that case was whether section was at all entitled to sell anything more than her life interest even for purposes of meeting a necessity binding upon the estate.
2 m l j 562 were next cited as the will gave her the right to enjoy the income of the estate during her lifetime it was evidently contemplated that she should as provided by the hindu law in the case of a widow be in possession of the estate.
in vasantharao ammannamma v venkata kodanda rao pantalu 1939.
indlaw mad 621 1940.
at page 193 of the report it was observed as follows the question therefore arises did he intend to confer only a life estate or a daughter s estate.
either he must have intended that the daughter should convey the property either by will or inter vivos to the grandsons or she having taken the estate through her it should pass to the grandsons in the ordinary course of devolution.
if it was the daughter s estate that was intended to be conferred there can be no question that the estate taken by the grandsons is not a vested interest.
reliance was next placed on maharaja of kolhapur v sundaram iyer 1925 i l r 48 mad.
in a suit by the respondent against his grandmother the daughter of the testator for a declaratory order preserving unmolested his future right and title to the said lands it was held that the daughter took an estate subject to her daughters succeeding her.
in other words that she should take an estate very much like the ordinary estate of a hindu widow.
generally speaking there will be no point in making a will if what is to be given to a widow is what she would get on intestacy and cases do arise where a hindu wishes to give to his widow a more restricted estate than she would get on intestacy or a much larger estate than that.
the question in every case can not be determined merely on the theory that every hindu thinks only about a hindu widow s estate and no more.
if both of them would live together amicably muthu arunachala chetty himself would enjoy the properties which remain after the death of the widow.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
chunderbutti his wife was in these terms the remaining milkiut and minhai estates together with the amount of ready money articles slaves and all household furniture i have placed in the possession of mst.
chunderbutti thakurain my wife to be enjoyed during her lifetime in order that she may hold possession of all the properties and milkiut possessed by me the declarant during her lifetime and by the payment of government revenue appropriate the profits derived therefrom but that she should not by any means transfer the milkiut estates and the slaves that after the death of my aforesaid wife the milkiut and household furniture shall devolve on girdhari thakur my karta adopted son.
the high court took a different view and held that chunderbutti took the estate in her character as a hindu widow.
reference was also made to a decision of the bombay high court in lallu v jagmohan 1898 i l r 22 bom.
and my wife has powers to do in the same way as i have absolute powers to do when i am present and in case of my wife s death my daughter mahalaxmi is owner of the said property after that.
after considering the rival contentions of the parties we are of the opinion that no sufficient grounds have been made out for disturbing the unanimous opinion of the two courts below on the construction of this will.
both the learned counsel eventually conceded that the language used in the will was consistent with the testator s intention of conferring a life estate in the english sense as well as with the intention of conferring a hindu widow s estate.
he also emphasized that the words of the gift over to the daughter as supporting his construction which was further reinforced by the words of the will limiting the widow s estate till your lifetime and of the omission from therein of words such as nialik etc while describing the widow s estate.
in our judgment there is force in the contention of mr rajah iyer for reasons already stated and in the result therefore we dismiss this appeal with costs.
appeal dismissed.
