this appeal by special leave is from the judgment and order of the high court of andhra pradesh dated 15th april 1986.
in 1954there was wakfnama by the said sail nawaz jung.
andhra pradesh requested for the requisition of the property named as sail gulshan with a vast extent of land and palaces with roads and surrounded by a compound wail measuring 19 acres and 10 guntas situated in the heart of hyderabad city near sarojini devi hospital.
in this appeal we are concerned with the claim for compensation for the said acquisition by one abdul khader who was a flower picker.
he had claimed rights as a tenant during the requisition.
act no xxi of 1950.
hereinafter called the andhra pradesh act.
s 2r states that the expression protected means a person who is deemed to be a protected tenant under the provisions of the said act.
chapter iv of the andhra pradesh act deals with protected tenants and s 34 of the said act provides who is to be considered as a protected tenant and uses the expression that a person shall subject to the provisions of sub ss 2 and 3be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of the land if he has fulfilled the conditions mentioned in clauses a and b of sub s 1 of s 34 of the said act.
sub s 2 of s 34 of the said act also deals with to be deemed to be a protected tenant in respect of any landfor certain purposes.
s 36 of the said act deals with the recovery of possession by protected tenant.
s 37 deals with persons not entitled under s 34 to be deemed in certain circumstances as protected tenants.
s 38 of the said act deals with right of protected tenant to purchase land.
s 40 of the said act makes rights of protected tenant heritable.
sub s 2 of s 40 of the said act indicates who are the heirs who would be entitled to hold the tenancy on the death of the protected tenant and on what terms.
sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides that if a protected tenant dies without leaving any heirs all his rights shall be so extinguished.
the explanation to sub s 3 of s 40 of the said act provides who should be deemed to be the heirs of a protected tenant.
it is necessary also to note the provisions of s 99 of the act.
it is as follows 99 bar of jurisdiction 1.
save as provided in this act.
s 3 of the said act gave power to requisition immovable property.
s 4 of the said act empowers taking possession of requisitioned property.
the main question centres around the right of abdul khader respondent no 1 herein to the compensation awarded by the arbitrator it is therefore necessary to refer to the relevant portion of the said order which inter alia stated as follows by perusal of the tenancy register of 1958 it is evident that sri mohd abdul khader is not a genuine protected tenant.
i suspect that somebody has tampered the register and entered the name of sri mohd abdul khader.
hyderabad west taluk.
1the learned single judge vaidya j held inter alia as follows whether the petitioner abdul khader is a protected tenant or whether he has any prima facie interest in the suit property are matters entirely within the sole jurisdiction of the arbitrator who has to be appointed under s 8 of the central act.
the order was passed by the district revenue officer who held that abdul khader was not a protected tenant.
he held further that khasra pahani which is the basic record of occupancy period after spot inspections does not find the name of abdul khader and further held that all entries except this entry in the protected tenancy register prepared under section 37a of the andhra pradesh act was supported by an enquiry.
the matter was brought to this court by a special leave application and this court in special leave petition civil no 10 of 1975 on or about 30th january 1975 held that since the question whether the petitioner in that case namely abdul khader was a protected tenant had been left open by the high court to be decided by the arbitrator u s 8 of the central act special leave petition was rejected with those observations.
u s 81b of the central act.
claim petition was filed by the appellant before the arbitrator claim petition was also filed by abdul khader claiming 60 of compensation as a protected tenant.
there was an award by the arbitrator holding that as this court had left it open to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant.
despite the objection exercising the jurisdiction of the arbitrator to go into the question of protected tenant the arbitrator held that abdul khader was a protected tenant.
aggrieved by the aforesaid award the appellant claiming as one of the owners of the property filed a statutory appeal to the high court.
appointed advocate commissioner to record additional evidence.
after giving our due consideration to the question we are of the view that the high court should determine this question.
in this appeal we are concerned with the question whether the high court was right in upholding the award of the arbitrator so far as it has held in favour of abdul khader and his rights to get 60 of the compensation.
the high court dealt with the value of the land.
we are not concerned with the challenge to this aspect in this appeal.
a i r 1985 s c 1576 1985 indlaw sc 246 on the question of solarium and interest on the amount awarded.
abdul khader on december 31950 was filed and was marked as exhibit c 1 the document recited permitted to utilise garden fruits flowers and mango.
fruits.
the land was taken possession of under a panchanama dated 12th of september1963 according to the high court the documents discussed in the judgment indicated that shaik hussain was a tenant from 1935 after his death on july 181949his son mohd abdul khader became a tenant.
the question was whether on enforcement of the said act abdul khader respondent herein was a protected tenant.
the high court noticed the position that under the said andhra pradesh act it was for the revenue authorities to order whether a tenant is a protected tenant under section 34s 37 and section 37a of the said act.
the court reiterated that there was surfeit of evidence to declare that abdul khader was a tenant.
a that abdul khader because he was a tenant between january1942 to january1948 for six years therefore was a protected tenant under sub cl ii of cl 1 of s 34 of the andhra pradesh act b that abdul khader held the land from october1943 to october1949therefore was a protected tenant of sail gulshan under sub cl iii of cl 1 of s 34 of act 21 of 1950 in these circumstances the high court held that adbul khader was entitled to 60 of the compensation paid.
aggrieved by the aforesaid decision the appellants being the successor of the owner of the land in question is in appeal before us.
shri shanker ghosh learned counsel for the appellant urged that under the said andhra pradesh act it was mandatory under s 99 read with s 102 of the said act in conjunction with the definition of s 2r of the act for the revenue authorities to decide whether abdul khader was a protected tenant or not.
the question of abdul khader s right to compensation had to be decided in accordance with law.
he had claimed rights of a protected tenant.
he had sought to establish his rights which must be found within the four corners of the andhra pradesh act along with other documents because u s 404 of the andhra pradesh act the interest of a protected tenant in the land held by him as a protected tenant formed 60 the rights of the protected tenants have been defined in the andhra pradesh act and relevant provisions of that act namely sections 343737a and 40 in conjunction with the definition under s 2r have to be taken into consideration in the background of the facts and circumstances of the case.
according to the appellant inasmuch as whether abdul khader was a protected tenant had not to be settled by the collector or the tribunal the arbitrator and the high court were in error in going to that question.
by the scheme of the central act compensation was payable to persons who had interest in the land acquired.
determination by the revenue authorities and non determination is not conclusive or decisive.
that in any event what was the interest of abdul khader had to be determined in determining the question of payment of compensation to him and in so determining the facts and circumstances and the proceedings before the revenue authorities and entries and subsequent deletions had to be taken into consideration by the arbitrator.
furthermore under s 99 of the andhra pradesh act the bar was not against the arbitrator but against a civil court.
he has a right to object to the acquisition andor the quantum of compensation.
let it be.
