in these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine engineering pharmacy nursing etc in educational institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this court in j p unni krishnan v state of a p 1993.
1 scc 645 1993 indlaw sc 1056.
by order dated october 71993 passed by the constitution bench three questions were referred for consideration by a larger bench.
in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted.
having regard to the importance of the questions involved we consider it appropriate to issue notice to the attorney general of india as well as the advocates general for the states.
since the process of selection of candidates for admission for the next academic session is to commence soon it is necessary to pass an interim order governing admission to the professional courses in minority educational institutions for the next academic session.
for admission in the last academic session 1993 94an interim order in the following terms was made by a bench comprising honourable the chief justice and one of us justice b p jeevan reddy on may 141993 in writ petition nos 350 and 355 of 1993.
we have heard shri soli j sorabjee learned senior counsel for the petitioners in these two writ petitions.
there will be an interim order in the following terms i fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test.
the candidates so selected and admitted shall pay scales of fee as applicable to this class of students as determined by the state government from time to time.
however the selection shall be made strictly on the basis of merit among the candidates seeking admission to the institutions.
candidates so selected on the basis of merit amongst the minorities shall however abide by such condition in the matter of payment of tuition and other fee as may be permitted by the state government.
112 1993 indlaw sc 575 applicable only to those institutions which are found to be meis on verification by the government and not to those who are not found to be meis on such verification.
similarly out of the 50 of the seats to be filled up by the management in accordance of the said order half shall be payment seats and the other half free seats.
any such irregularity if proved may entail serious consequences.
separate directions were however given in respect of institutions referred to in writ petitions nos 284 and 482 of 1993 with regard to writ petition no 284 of 1993 it was observed that in the said writ petition the petitioner has claimed that no capitation fee is charged from any student and the fee charged is not more than in some cases less than.
it was also observed that this fact was not disputed by the learned advocate general for the state of karnataka.
after completing the admissions the petitioners shall furnish full particulars of the students admitted the categories if any whereunder they were admitted and all other particulars relating to their admission.
in case of irregularity any of the said authorities shall be entitled to call upon the petitioner to rectify the said irregularity.
4scc276 2002.
it was further made clear that this was a special provision made only for that year.
in the aforesaid order dated october 719933with reference to the minority educational institutions in the state of kerala such as those covered by writ petition no 598 of 1993 it has been observed the system obtaining in kerala appears to be altogether different which was unfortunately not brought to our notice on august 181993 there are only two private engineering colleges in the state said to be minority educational institutions.
under this system the colleges were allowed to admit students of their own choice to the extent of 15.
we have heard learned counsel for the parties and we are of the view that except for the minority educational institutions in kerala which are governed by the terms of the agreements with the government of kerala the directions given by this court with regard to admissions for the academic session 1993 can continue and govern admissions for the next academic session commencing in 1994 as regards the institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by the terms of agreements with the government of kerala the admissions to such institutions would be made in accordance with those agreements.
in respect of the seats which are left for management to fill in its discretion merit shall be the guiding principle.
in the absence of such list they can themselves devise the method for such selection.
we make it clear that regarding the character of these institutions whether they are minority educational institutions we express no opinion.
but it would be open for the management of the institution to adjudge the merit of the candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
conservators forests u p rendered on november 61990 it would appear that at present there are 215 direct recruits and 100 promotee asstt.
conservators forest working in the forest department.
their continuous length of ad hoc service from the date of their initial appointment can not be counted towards seniority.
the direct recruits were appointed in accordance with rule 5a read with appendix a of u p forest service rules1952 for short the rules.
conservators forest and the seniority of direct recruits shall accordingly be fixed.
conservators forest if not already made in accordance with rule 5b read with appendix b and rule 6.
the seniority of the promotee asstt.
conservators forest shall be counted from the respective dates of appointment to the substantive posts in their quota under rule 6 of the rules.
all the employees are entitled to all consequential benefits.
231991this court observed thus we are told by the counsel for the state of u p that for the purpose of working out the seniority draft list has been prepared and was in circulation inviting objections.
conservator forest for the years 1973 74 to 1979 80 had taken place by a regularly constituted selection committee which selected 140 candidates for appointment.
therefore they are entitled to the seniority from the respective years.
conservators forest as they were initially appointed to the substantive vacancies.
shri verma appearing for some of the later direct recruits contended that the direct recruits were appointed to the substantive vacancies as held in k c joshi case and their seniority was fixed in the judgment from the date on which they started discharging the duties of the post as asstt.
conservators forest.
in the rejoinder the promotees have stated that as on december 311974 a total number of 140 posts of asstt.
conservators forest were available and their quota as per the existing rules was 25 per cent.
as per the ratio the promotees are entitled to 33 13per cent quota.
december 1198640 more posts were created.
258 on march 11985the quota was increased by 50 per cent.
as in the year 199072 more posts were created and the total posts are now 330 therefore they are entitled to 50 per cent of the quota in the tentative list.
it is further contended that though decision was taken to give 50 per cent quota to the promotees the statutory rules have not been made.
since the seniority as per the direction of this court was made only to substantive posts some of the direct recruits became temporary direct recruits and the seniority was determined accordingly.
in the light of the respective contentions the question arises whether the determination of the seniority is in accordance with the directions issued by this court.
we have to consider therefore whether the procedure adopted by the sate to determine the inter se seniority is in accordance with the rules and the law laid down in k c joshi case.
conservators forest are awaiting appointment to substantive vacancies.
if the temporary posts are likely to continue for long normally as per the law laid down by this court they be treated for the purpose of counting seniority as permanent posts unless they are likely to be abolished.
it is a policy matter.
after this exercise is exhausted appointments should be made posts are to be filled up to substantive vacancies.
it would be open to the state government to fix tentatively the inter se seniority in the temporary posts according to the ratio between the direct recruits and the promotees in the same manner of filling the substantive posts as indicated above.
as and when the temporary posts are converted either into permanent posts or the vacancies arise due to superannuation of the senior officers they should be fixed in the respective vacancies and fitment made.
after exhausting the exercise the remaining candidates awaiting appointment would continue to be temporary until they get due placement or fixation of their seniority.
