these three appeals by special leave are directed against one and the same judgment dated 25 09 l992 of the division bench of calcutta high court.
the three appellants are the state of west bengal in appeal arising out of slp c no 401 of 1993the state fishery development corporation ltd in appeal arising out of slp c no 13516 of 1992 and bansilal farms in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992.
the respondents are the members of one sarkar family in the city of calcutta.
the dispute centres around a fishery called nalban fishery.
a suit for partition was filed by one of the co sharers of said sarkar family in the high court of calcutta on 3 9 1955which was registered as suit no 2539 of 1955 the schedule of properties included the disputed nalban fishery.
a learned single judge of the calcutta high court passed a preliminary decree in the said suit on 11 8 1960 one of the co sharers of the sarkar family preferred an appeal against the preliminary decree before the division bench which was registered as appeal no200 of 1960 during the pendency of the aforesaid appeal the state of west.
this court dismissed the special leave petition.
prior to the passing of the aforesaid order on april 181979 while granting special leave petition on 10 11 1978 this court had directed that the state of west bengal will be made a party to the proceeding and further the collector parganas was appointed as receiver in respect of the fisheries owned by the sarkar family.
the collector 24 parganas took possession of the fisheries including nalban fishery as receiver and submitted a compliance report dated 22 11 1978 to the registrar of this court.
it may be noted that nalban fishery had been requisitioned by the state of west bengal under the provisions of requisition act since 5 11 1969 and possession thereof had been taken on 8 11 1969 and the sarkar family had challenged the said order unsuccessfully which final by the dismissal of the special leave petition by this court on 17 11 1972 on 25 5 1979 the collector 24 parganas who had been appointed as receiver realised that he could not have taken possession of nalban fishery as receiver since the said fishery had already been in possession of the state of west bengal pursuant to requisition order dated 5 11 1969 obviously the earlier compliance report dated 20 11 1978 that the receiver has taken possession of the nalban fishery was a symbolic one inasmuch as the state of west.
bengal was in fact in possession of the said fishery.
the aforesaid corporation issued an advertisement for auctioning the nalban fishery for a boating complex.
under the circumstances the said receiver rightly intimated this court about the mistake committed by him and re delivered possession of nalban fishery to the state of west bengal.
the calcutta high court both the learned single judge as well as the division bench committed serious error of law in directing the receiver to take possession of nalban fishery from the state of west bengal and deliver the vacant possession of the same to the members of the sarkar family.
ray the learned senior counsel appearing for bansilal farms in addition to the contentions raised by mr salve appearing for the state of west.
bengal contended that the state being the owner of nalban fishery and having vested the management and control thereof with the state fishery development corporation and the said corporation having decided to use the tank fishery for a boating complex and the bansilal farms being the highest bidder and having been granted the right to have a boating complex therein and he having invested a huge sum of money his rights can not be taken away in the dispute between the state and the sarkar family.
he further contended that nalban fishery having been vested in the state of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal acquisition act1955the state can not get rid of the direction given by the supreme court to the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree and the nalban fishery being one such fishery the possession thereof was required to be given to the person in whose favour the said fishery has been allotted and therefore the learned single judge as well as the division bench in appeal have rightly issued the directions.
gupta also contended that the receiver assumed possession of the fisheries pursuant to the order of the supreme court dated 6th of november1978 and having submitted a report to that effect on 22 11 1978 indicating that it has taken possession of the nalban fishery.
the subsequent incumbent to the post of district magistrate 24 parganas who became the receiver by virtue of his official position had no further jurisdiction to re deliver possession of the nalban fishery to the state of west bengal and the comments already made by the high court on the report of the subsequent receiver sufficiently indicate how he had acted with the bias mind and consequently the nalban fishery having not vested in the state of west bengal under the acquisition act the decree passed by the supreme court on 18 4 1979 remains operative.
bengal and therefore it would not be open for the said state in application for execution of the decree to raise the question of vesting of the nalban fishery with the state and the court would not interfere with the direction given by the learned single judge and division bench of the calcutta high court.
that the tank fishery vested with the state of west bengal.
bengal.
the nalban fishery was one of the items of property in the suit for partition is not disputed.
it is an undisputed fact that nalban fishery had been requisitioned much prior to the aforesaid decree of this court dated 18 4 1979 and therefore the rights of the state to the fishery either by virtue of the requisition order or by virtue of any provision of any other statute remained protected and as such said state of west.
bengal ca nt be bound down by the so called allotment of fisheries in favour of some members of the sarkar family under the compromise decree in question.
the said receiver was not aware of the fact that nalban fishery had in fact requisitioned by the state of west bengal and the state is in possession of the same since november1369 the possession thus taken by the receiver of the vast extent tank fishery is obviously a symbolical possession but in view of the order of this court dated 18 4 1979 as well as 22 4 1979 while passing a decree in terms of compromise arrived at between the parties and on the admitted position that state had already come into possession of the fishery by virtue of the order under the requisition act the said fishery remained out of the purview of the allotment made by the sarkar family in the compromise and therefore the receiver could not have taken possession of the same.
bengal in respect of the nalban fishery as the state was not a party to the proceedings.
after such demarcation is made the commissioner of partition is directed to approve the same and carry out the direction of the honble supreme court in respect thereof.
it is no doubt true that a writ petition has been filed challenging the validity of the aforesaid act and notification issued there under in relation to vary nalban fishery which is still pending and therefore it would not be proper for us to examine the provisions of the emended west bengal land reforms act and to express any opinion thereon.
we would further observe that the state should determine the amount of compensation which the sarkar family is entitled to under the relevant provisions of the act under which nalban fishery vests with the state of west bengal and the compensation amount be paid on being determined in accordance with the law to the family members of sarkar family in whose favour nalban fishery had been allotted under the compromise decree by this court.
