the state of manipur had not framed any recruitment rules for appointment inter alia in the revenue department and in particular the field staff thereof.
the commissioner of revenue department was conferred with a power of being the cadre controlling authority for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
he was also to be the chairman of the departmental promotion committee for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
the commissioner allegedly made certain appointments in the posts of mandols process servers and zilladars which was not within the knowledge of the state.
the said appointments were made on temporary basis.
appointments were made on 11 09 199722 11 1997 and 5 12 1997 a sample copy of the offer of appointment reads as under no 11497 com rev on the recommendation of d p c and under the directives issued by the honourable gauhati high court the following persons are hereby appointed as mandols on temporary basis in the scale of pay of rs 950 20 1150 eb 25 1400 per month with usual allowances against thereto existing clear vacancies of mandals under revenue department from the date of their joining on duties.
2 further they are posted at the places indicate against their names 3 the expenditure is debitable under appropriate heads of accounts of the departments offices concerned.
an inquiry was therefore made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
imphal the 12th jan.
1998 sub submission of report.
with reference to the u o letter no 21593 comr pt.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
etc of.
i therefore deny making of such appointments.
on the other hand md.
a r khan secretary revenue has made many appointments of mandols process servers zilladars in the recent months against which i have been complaining that the secretary revenue has no power or authority to make any appointments of field staff as per rules provided under m l r act1960 in this regard i have apprised the matter to the honourable minister revenue already and also informed the chief secretary manipur explaining that the secretary revenue can not make such appointments of field staffs even if he wanted to do so all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the honourable minister revenue his action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
he has been making false and wrong allegations against the commissioner revenue and putting him false position.
i still deny that i have made any appointment of field staffs of revenue department during the recent months.
submitted for information and consideration.
sd 12198 annayok j tayeng.
commissioner revenue.
govt of manipur minister revenue.
their appointments were also cancelled on similar grounds.
the respondents herein filed writ petitions before the high court on 4 06 1998 questioning the said order of cancellation of their appointments.
the said shri tayeng retired on 28 02 1998 despite the fact that he in his uo note dated 12 02 1998 addressed to the minister of revenue denied to have made any appointment when approached by the writ petitioners respondents he affirmed in their support an affidavit in the high court stating 3 that while i was functioning as revenue commissioner manipur matters relating to appointment on the recommendation of the d p c transfer etc were put up to me in files and i used to pass order on the basis of facts presented to me in file.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
as stated above i was transferred and posted to the manipur electronics development corporation during 1997.
4 that after my retirement some of the writ petitioners civil rule no 568 of 1998came to me and show copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit of the respondent no 12 and 3 i have gone through the copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit and annexures thereto.
the xerox copy of the cyclostyled appointment order bearing no 11497.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
dated 11 9 97 annexure a2 to the writ petition appointing 4 persons to the post of mandol are perused by me minutely.
i submit that these appointment orders annexures a1 and a2 bear my signature initial and appear to have been issued under my signature.
chief election commissioner delhi and ors air 1978 sc 851 1977 indlaw sc 53.
however it was observed however it is further made clear that the state respondent are at liberty to initiate or take up any appropriate legal action in the matter pertaining to their alleged fake appointments in their respective posts in accordance with law and pass necessary order after affording reasonable opportunity of being heard to them.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on kendriya vidyalaya sangathan and others v ajay kumar das and others 2002 4 scc 503 2002 indlaw sc 287.
it was argued that the question as to whether appointments were made without the knowledge of the department or for that matter whether any record was available there for was of not much significance as in effect and substance they lead to the same inference and in that view of the matter the decision of this court in mohinder singh gill 1977 indlaw sc 53 supra was not attracted.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on parshotam lal dhingra v union of india.
air 1958 sc 36 1957 indlaw sc 103murugayya udayar and another.
1991 supp 1 scc 331 1991 indlaw sc 904 and kumari shrilekha vidyarthi and others v state of u p and others 1991 1 scc 212 1990 indlaw sc 463.
the state while offering appointments having regard to the constitutional scheme adumbrated in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india must comply with its constitutional duty subject to just and proper exceptions to give an opportunity of being considered for appointment to all persons eligible there for.
as noticed hereinbefore an inquiry had been made wherein the said shri tayeng the then commissioner of revenue stated that no such appointment had been made to his knowledge.
the offers of appointment were cancelled not on the ground that some irregularities had been committed in the process of recruitment but on the ground that they had been non est in the eye of law.
the purported appointment letters were fake ones.
they were not issued by any authority competent therefor.
he was only a cadre controlling authority.
he was merely put a chairman of the dpc for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
he therefore was wholly incompetent to issue the appointment letters.
it is true that where appointments had been made by a competent authority or at least some steps have been taken in that behalf the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with in view of the decision of this court in murugayya udayar 1991 indlaw sc 904 supra.
in kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 suprathis court was dealing with a question in regard to continuance of the law officers.
the question which arose herein was not raised.
35 it is now too well settled that every state action in order to survive must not be susceptible to the vice of arbitrariness which is the crux of art 14 of the constitution and basic to the rule of law the system which governs us.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
their appointment is in the first instance for one year.
his work is also subject to strict supervision.
in parshotam lal dhingra 1957 indlaw sc 103.
cl 2 protects government servants against being dismissed or removed or reduced in rank without being given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to them.
chief constable of the thames valley police forces ex p cotton by giving six reasons see also his article should public law remedies be discretionary.
1991 pl64.
a detailed and emphatic criticism of the useless formality theory has been made much earlier in natural justice substance or shadow by prof d h clark of canada 1975 pl27 63 contending that malloch and glynn were wrongly decided.
for the reasons aforementioned the impugned judgments can not be sustained.
the appeals are allowed.
