ujjagar singh the appellant herein a resident of village bangawali tehsil malerkotla was tried and convicted by the additional sessions judge sangrur for the murder of his niece mukhtiar kaur and was awarded the death penalty.
in addition he was convicted for an offence punishable section 376 of the ipc and sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and to a fine of rs 5 000 and in default of payment to undergo further r i for one year and section 309 of the ipc to a sentence of simple imprisonment for one year.
the aforesaid convictions and sentences have been maintained by the high court and the matter is before us in these proceedings by way of special leave.
the facts of the case are as under.
at about 2 00 p m on 10th november 2002 a boy whose identity is not forthcoming informed satnam singh pw2 that an incident of firing had taken place in the house of ujjagar singh situated in the fields on the outskirts of the village.
jora singh and gurdeep singh immediately removed ujjagar singh to the civil hospital dhuri in the jeep belonging to kulwant singh pw4.
the facts as narrated were that arjan singh of village bangawali had three sons puran singh ujjagar singh appellant and ajmer singh.
puran singh had died about 20 years earlier leaving behind his wife two sons and a daughter mukhtiar kaur.
having recorded the aforesaid facts in the fir pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh reached the place of incident and lifted one spent 12 bore cartridge case shaktiman make from near mukhtiar kaur s dead body and one dbbl gun from the place where ujjagar singh appeared to have been shot and another spent cartridge case was recovered from the right barrel of the gun.
after completion of the investigation at the spot mukhtiar kaur s dead body was sent for its post mortem examination.
dr harwinder kaur aforesaid also took swabs from the vagina of the deceased and as per the chemical examiner s report dated 2 1 2003 semen was found on the swab taken from the vagina and from the underwear that mukhtiar kaur had been wearing at the time of her death.
during the trial jora singh pw1 satnam singh pw2 gurdeep singh pw3 and kulwant singh pw4 resiled from their statements given to the police and were declared hostile.
balwinder singh pw9 however supported the prosecution case deposing that the land had in fact been got transferred from gurmail kaur mother of mukhtiar kaur to ujjagar singh by fraud and mukhtiar kaur was therefore entitled to its return.
he also deposed that mukhtiar kaur had told him some time earlier that the accused had been beating her and had also committed sexual intercourse with her and that at about 11 p m on 10 11 2002 karam singh pw10 had informed him as to what had transpired on which he along with his father hamir singh pw12 and several others had rushed to bangawali.
pw10 karam singh aforesaid confirmed the story given by balwinder singh.
313 of the cr.
i have been implicated falsely in this case.
i was treating mukhtiar kaur as my daughter and loved her as my daughter.
false allegations have been levelled against me.
i never harassed mukhtiar kaur nor ever got her land mutated from her mother by fraud.
i have not killed mukhtiar kaur.
mother of mukhtiar kaur got the land mutated by her own free will and mukhtiar kaur had no dispute about it.
balwinder singh her husband was addicted to vices and used to beat her due to which she used to remain under depression and sick generally and used to come to me as my daughter.
i regained consciousness in hospital.
i have been implicated in this case falsely.
he has pointed out that there was absolutely no evidence to suggest that mukhtiar kaur had been subjected to rape and in this view of the matter the very basis for the imposition of the death penalty was not made out.
he has further emphasized that the prosecution s case stood proved from various factors including the medical evidence the reports of the forensic science laboratory the chemical examiner from the post mortem reports and the recovery of the gun and cartridges.
we first take up for consideration the question of the conviction section 376 of the ipc.
No 4 an abrasion near the right eye do not indicate any attempt to rape or the commission of rape.
we are further of the opinion that even assuming for a moment that sexual intercourse between the two had indeed taken place it can not be said from the evidence before us that it was without the consent or against the wishes of mukhtiar kaur.
in this case this court held that the omission of the prosecution inter alia to have the finger prints found on the alleged murder weapon was fatal to the prosecution story.
there is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between may be proved and must be or should be proved as was held by this court in shivaji sahabrao bobade v state of maharashtra 1973 indlaw sc 181 where the following observations were made.
certainly it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between may be is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.
2the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused that is to say they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty 3the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency 4they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved and 5there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
mr goburdhan has also cited mahmood v state of u p 1976 1 scc 542 1975 indlaw sc 643 shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra 1981 2 scc 35 1980 indlaw sc 47 sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 omwati smt and ors v mahendra singh.
1998 9 scc 81 1997 indlaw sc 1403 sudama pandey ors v state of bihar 2002 1 scc 679 2001 indlaw sc 21243 and r r khanna reddy anr.
first the place of incident being adjoining rooms in the residential house of the appellant and the fact that the alleged murder weapon is his licensed dbbl gun is proved on record.
gopal singh was cross examined by the prosecution.
pjj prepared by the investigating officer inspector harjinder pal singh pw14 on 10th november 2002 that the weapon is shown lying close to the place where the appellant had been found unconscious and a spent cartridge recovered from near the dead body of mukhtiar kaur.
he has in this connection referred us to the statement of dr ripan miglani pw15 and the wound found on the appellant at the time of his medical examination in the department of surgery of the dayanand medical college hospital ludhiana which was about 15 x 8 cm curvilinear wound present on the left half of face extending upto bone.
no blackening or foreign body was visible.
he has thus urged that the absence of any blackening underlined the argument that the shot had been fired from some distance and as such an attempt at suicide was clearly to be ruled out.
the fact that the shot was fired from below going upwards is also supported by the site plan exh.
the fact that the terrace and the bedroom are adjoining each other is not in dispute.
blackening or charring is possible when a shot is fired from a distance of about 2 feet to 3 feet.
it goes a long way to show that the same must have been done by a person who wanted to kill the deceased from a short distance.
the onus was on him.
he failed to discharge the same.
in his statement section p c his positive stand was that he alone had been in the house with mukhtiar kaur when she had been killed and indeed as per exhibit p jj mukhtiar kaur s body had been found only one karam 5 feet away from the place where the appellant lay injured.
even otherwise we are of the opinion that had the shot been fired by some intruder the direction would have been more or less horizontal and parallel to the ground and not from down upwards with the pellets hitting the jaw skirting the cheek and hitting the roof at point.
e in modi s medical jurisprudence and toxicology 23rd edition at page 765 while dealing with identification of homicidal and suicidal injuries it has been observed that a suicidal firearm wound is usually a contact wound situated on the side of the temple depending on which hand was used to shoot himself in the centre of the forehead the roof of the mouth in the chest or epigastrium in front or the left side and some times under the chin.
a small weapon like a revolver or a pistol is held in the hand while a rifle or a shot gun is supported on the ground or against the wall.
homicidal shooting by dacoits is not uncommon in india and they are known to make their own firearms.
a fateh describes a rare homicidal gun shot wound of the mouth where the entry wound was in the tongue and the direction was horizontally backward while in suicidal wounds the direction is upwards entrance would be in the palate or posterior pharynx.
dr b r sharma in his book forensic science in criminal investigation and trials fourth edition at page 1160 too has delineated the circumstances that could indicate suicide and while referring to the site of the injury has observed certain sites are predominantly used by suicides for self inflicted injuries.
for example with firearm temple forehead mouth and chest are the favourite sites.
hesitation injuries are also observed in some suicide cases.
in this background the death sentence is not called for.
appeal dismissed.
