Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
Section 29 ran as follows The provisions of this Act shall apply to all suits and proceedings including proceedings  in execution for ejectment of a thika tenant which are pending at the date of commencement of this Act and if any such suit or proceeding relates to any matter in respect of which the Controller is competent after the date of such commendment to pass orders under this Act such suit or proceeding shall be transferred to the Controller who shall on suit transfer deal with it in accordance with the provisions of this Act as if this Act had been in operation on the date of institution of the suit or proceeding Provided that in applying the provisions of the Act to any suit or proceeding instituted for the ejectment of a thika tenant so transferred the provisions regarding notice in section 4 of this Act shall not apply.
It is however clear that the benefit of section 28 was available only if the decree or order for the recovery of possession had been made before the date of the commencement of the Act but 176 possession of such holding had not been recovered from him.
If the Court or Controller holds that the person is such a thika tenant.
If the matter was in appeal the appellate court had to exercise jurisdiction under this sub section determine whether the tenant was a thika tenant and send the matter to the controller if it was found that the tenant was entitled to the benefit of the Act .
Sub section 2 of section 1 provided that the Act was to come into force immediately on the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 ceasing to operate provided that the provisions of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended by this Act were subject to the provisions of section 9 to apply and be deemed to have always applied to all suits appeals and proceedings a before any court or b before the Controller or c before a person deciding an appeal under section 27 of the said Act on the date of the commencement of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 ie 21st October 1952.
According to Craies on Statute Law Sixth Edition at p 391 If it is a necessary implication from the language employed that the legislature intended a particular section to have a retrospective operation the courts will give it such an operation.
According to Halsbury s Laws of England third edition Vol 36 page 413 article 627 Unless it is clearly and unambiguously intended to do so a statute should not be construed so as to interfere with or prejudice established private rights under contracts or the title to property or so as to deprive a man of his property without his having an opportunity of being heard.
Before the Act had come into force the landlord could not possibly know that his suit would be liable to be defeated unless he applied to the controller because there was no such authority functioning then.
Section 28 was meant to give relief to a thika tenant in a case where a decree or order for recovery of possession of any holding from a thika tenant had been made before the date of commencement of the Act.
If the legislature did not want to impose the bar of section 4 to pre Act suits in 1949 it does not stand to reason that the legislature should seek to impose it in the year 1953 to be operative in all suits pending not on February 28 1949 but on 21st October 1952.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
There being no provision for transfer of the proceedings of the suit to the controller the court had to apply the Act as it found applicable to the facts of the case.
He was not right in his view that the grounds specified in section 3 could not be called in aid.
For reasons we cannot speculate upon the legislature limited the applicability of the Act only to suits and appeals pending on 21st October 1952 and not in February 1949 ie the date of the commencement of the Act of 1949.
Bhargava J I agree with the judgment of my brother Mitter J with the exception that I would like to reserve my opinion on the question whether section 4 of the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act 1949 as amended up to 1953 is prospective or not.
