From the Judgment and Order dated 1031986 of the Karnataka High Court in WP Nos.
In exercise of its powers under section 637 of the  the Central Government specified 50 as the number of All India Tourist Vehicle Permits  which may be granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
A public service vehicle is defined in section 225 as any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward and includes a motor cab contract carriage and stage carriage.
Desai J speaking for the court observed However when an application for a permit is made under Chapter IV the Undertaking has to compete with private operators who may as well make an application for permit.
It signifies that other things being equal 1016 one will have preference over the others.
47 the application of the Undertaking for an inter State route shall be examined as application of any other private operator.
In an application under Chapter IV Corporation has to enter the arena like any other applicant face the competition and come up to the level of other private operators intending to obtain stage carriage permits and then in respect of the route in question claim preference.
Preference in this context would mean that other things generally appearing to be qualitatively and quantitatively equal though not with mathematical accuracy statutory provision will tilt the balance in favour of the Undertaking.
Clauses i to iii of the proviso providing for preference to be given to applications for permits from the Indian Tourism Development Corporation the State Tourism Development Corporation and the State Tourist Department were not questioned but the preference provided for by clause iv and to be given to such operators of tourist cars or such travel agents as may be approved in this behalf by the Ministry dealing in tourism was questioned as an infringement of article 14 of the Constitution.
It was said that the clause contained sufficient guidelines for the exercise of discretion in granting approval by the Central Government.
It was said that the object of the proviso to section 1018 637 was very obviously the promotion of tourism and the approval of the Central Government would be given to those operators of tourist cars and travel agents who may be expected to serve that purpose.
It is difficult to agree with the interpretation of the Karnataka High Court having regard to the definitions of Transport Vehicle and motor car contained in section 229 A and section 216 respectively.
637 of the .
It is seen that the scheme excludes omnibus operators and requires applicants to have 1019 either two years  experience in the car hire business with contacts in the tourist business or to own five tourist taxies.
In the result we set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to hear the appeals in the light of what we have said.
PSS Appeals allowed.
