Special Leave Petition Nos.
823 24 of 1990.
321  322 of 1989.
SR Bhat for the Petitioners.
RN Narasimha Murthy KH Nobin Singh M Veerappa and SN Bhatt for the Respondents.
The petitioners were the owners of certain lands which were acquired by the respondents under the provisions of Sections 17 and 19 of the Bangalore Development Act 1976 hereinafter referred to as the Bangalore Act.
That contention was repelled along with certain other contentions in the judgment of the High Court which is sought to be impugned before us.
Under the first proviso to Section 11 A it was prescribed that where the said declaration under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act has been published before the commencement of the Land Acquisition Amendment Act 1984 the award must be made within a period of two years from such commencement.
Thus the award should have been made within two years from September 20 1984.
On September 11 1985 the petitioners obtained an interim order from this Court directing status quo with regard to the possession of the lands in question in Special Leave Petition No 294 of 1985 preferred against the order of the Karnataka High Court dated August 14 1984 with which we are not directly concerned here.
The said Special Leave Petition No294 of 1985 was dismissed on April 29 1987.
On December 16 17 1987 two writ petitions were field by the respective petitioners in the Karnataka High Court challenging the acquisition on the ground that the awards were not made within the stipulated time.
In these two writ petitions the Karnataka High Court granted interim stay of further proceedings in respect of the acquisition of the said lands.
These petitions were dismissed by a learned Single Judge of that High Court on November 29 1988.
Appeals against the decision of a learned Single Judge were dismissed by the Karnataka High Court on October 6 1989 by a Division Bench of that High Court.
The petitioners preferred these Special Leave Petitions namely SLP Nos 823 and 824 of 1990 against the decision of the Devision Bench of that High Court and obtained an interim stay of dispossession therein.
Whatever the ultimate effect of the stay orders in view of the provisions of Section 11 A of the Land Acquisition Act to which we have already referred 566 earlier it is beyond dispute that the fact of the stay orders was highly material in the determination of these Special Leave Petitions.
Curiously enough there is no reference in the Special Leave Petitions to any to the stay orders and we came to know about these orders only when the respondents appeared in response to the notice and filed their counter affidavit.
In our view the said interim orders have a direct bearing on the question raised and the non disclosure of the same certainly amounts to suppression of material facts.
On this ground alone the Special Leave Petitions are liable to be rejected.
It is well settled in law that the relief under Article 136 of the Constitution is discretionary and a petitioner who approaches this Court for such relief must come with frank and full disclosure of facts.
If he fails to do so and suppresses material facts his application is liable to be dismissed.
We accordingly dismiss the Special Leave Petitions.
There will be no order as to costs of these petitions.
RP SLPs dismissed.
