section C Manchanda R N Sachthey and B D Sharma for the respondent.
The notice is being issued after obtaining the necessary satisfaction of the Commissioner of IncomeTax Bihar and Orissa Patna.
Sd section P Chaliha Income Tax Officer Ward A Muzaffarpur.
In this case the notice was issued after four years but before eight years of the date of the original assessment.
 Section 147 deals with income escaping assessment.
Hereinbelow we have sent out the report of the Income tax Officer as well as the order of the Commissioner Report in Connection with the starting of proceeding under Section 147 of the Income tax Act 1951.
8Whether the Commissioner is satisfied that Yes it is a fit case for the issue of notice under Sd K Narain section 148.
Whether the Board is satisfied that it is aSecretary Board of Revenuefit case for the issue of notice under section 148.
Sd section P Chaliha 30 4 66.
 In his report the Income tax Officer does not set out any reason for coming to the conclusion that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
The material that he had before him for issuing notice under section 148 is not mentioned in the report.
He appears to have had only a vague feeling that they may be bogus transactions.
In other words he must have some prima facie grounds before him for taking action under section 148.
That is not the same thing as saying that there are reasons to issue notice under section 148.
Before issuing a notice under section 148 the Income tax Officer must have either reasons to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of these assessee to make a return under section 139 for any assessment year to the Income tax Officer or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year or alternatively not withstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned above on the part of the assessee the Income tax Officer has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year.
Therefore he could not have issued a notice under section 148.
He did not himself record that he was satisfied that this was a fit case for the issue of a notice under section 148.
We are of the opinion that if only he had read the report carefully he could never have 448 come to the conclusion on the material before him that this is a fit case to issue notice under section 148.
