The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and urged that as it maintained its books of account in accordance with the cash system of accounting the accrued interest on the money lending investments could not be included in the wealth tax assessments.
In doing so the Appellate Assistant Commissioner followed Commissioner of Wealth tax Bihar and Orissa vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju Orissa1 The Wealth Tax Officer appealed to the Appellate Tribunal and contended that accrued interest was liable to be included in the wealth tax assessments of the assessee.
The Appellate Tribunal observed that the judgment of the Orissa High Court was binding on it and accordingly by a consolidated order dated April 3 1972 it dismissed the appeals.
Under section 3 of the Wealth Tax Act wealth tax is charged for every assessment year in respect of the net wealth of the assessee on the corresponding valuation date.
The expression net wealth is defined by cl.
m of s2 of the Act as the amount by which the aggregate value  .
That is the valuation date.
q of s2 indicates that broadly Parliament has fixed upon the last day of the previous year as defined under the Income Tax Act as the valuation date.
His financial activities during that period determine how his net wealth on a particular valuation date differs from his net wealth on the immediately preceding valuation date.
There is an obvious advantage in adopting as the valuation date the last day of a period which is also the relevant period under the Income Tax Act.
The reasons for defining the valuation date in terms of the last day of the income tax previous year stop there.
In other words it would be the estimated open market value of the rights in the property which constitute the asset.
That being so the conclusion is inescapable that even though the accounts of the assessee are maintained on cash basis interest due on accrual basis though not realised on the outstandings of the money lending business are liable to be included in the net wealth of the assessee.
