Appeal No 101 of 1959.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated November 8 1957 of the Deputy Custodian General Evacuee Property Now Delhi Revision Petition No 17 R55 of 1955.
Achhru Ram and K L Mehta for the appellants.
BK Khanna and T M Sen for the respondent No 1.
NS Bindra and A G Ratnaparkhi for the respondents Nos.
March 15.
The appellants who are admittedly displaced persons from West Pakistan were granted quasi permanent allotment of 24 standard acres and 15 34 units in the village of Raikot in Ludhiana District in 1949.
Nand Singh therefore made an application for consolidation of his lands with those of the appellants in the village Raikot.
During the pendency of this application he died and after his death the application was continued by the appellants.
This application was rejected by the Assistant Custodian on July 23 1951 on the ground that no land was available in the village Raikot.
A revision petition preferred by the appellants against the order of the Assistant Custodian was dismissed by the Additional Custodian on August 20 1952.
On October 7 1952 the appellants preferred a revision application before the Custodian General.
During the pendency of the revision application the Additional Custodian for the State of Punjab cancelled the allotment of fourteen quasi permanent allottees of the village Karodian in the same district on the ground that these persons were entitled to allotment of suburban land a had been wrongly fitted in the village Karodian.
Acting suo motu the Additional Custodian made an order on October 31 1952 cancelling the order of allotment of land in the village Raikot made in favour of the appellants in the year 1949 and instead allotted to them land in Karodian in substitution of the lands at Raikot and of the lands allotted to their father.
The land allotted was out of the land released upon the cancellation of allotment of lands in favour of the aforementioned 14 allottees.
These fourteen allottees preferred an application for review of the order cancelling their allotment on the ground that this cancellation was a result of misapprehension of the actual facts and that they were not entitled to allotment of suburban lands at all.
The appellants also preferred an application for review of the order cancelling their quasi permanent allotment in the village Raikot.
The Additional Custodian admitted that these persons were not entitled to allotment of suburban land and that consequently their allotment had been wrongly made but referred the matter back to the Additional Custodian for decision.
The Additional Custodian however dismissed the application on the ground that r 146 of the Evacuee Property Rules which came into force on July 22 1952 stood in the way of cancellation of the allotment in favour of the appellant.
On December 17 1954 the Deputy Custodian General before whom these allottees had preferred an application for revision revised the order of the Additional Custodian and restored to the 14 allottees of Karodian the land which had been originally allotted to them.
As a result of this order the allotment of Karodian land made in favour of the appellants automatically stood cancelled.
On January 6 1955 the appellants moved the Deputy Custodian General for calling up their review application and for revising the order of October 31 1952 passed by the Additional Custodian cancelling the allotment of Raikot lands which had originally been made in their favour in the year 1949.
By the order dated November 8 1957 the Deputy Custodian General dismissed the appellants  application.
The ground on which the appellants  application was rejected by the Deputy Custodian General was that his jurisdiction to revise the order has been 332 taken away by virtue of the provisions of  44 of 1954 and the notification issued thereunder on March 24 1955.
There is no specific provision in this Act to the effect that after its commencement the jurisdiction of the various authorities created by the  to deal with the allotment or cancellation of allotment of evacuee property shall cease.
Section 12 of the 1954 Act empowers the Central Government to acquire evacuee property for rehabilitation of displaced persons by publishing in the official gazette a notification to the effect that it has decided to acquire such evacuee property in pursuance of this provision.
It is common ground that by notification section R 0 697 dated March 24 1955 the Central Government decided to acquire all evacuee property allotted to displaced persons by the Custodian under the Conditions contained in the notification of the Government of Punjab in the Department of Rehabilitation No 4892 6 dated July 8 1949 except certain categories of property specified in the schedule.
333 provides that on the publication of the notification under sub section 1 the right title or interest of any evacuee in the property specified in the notification shall immediately stand extinguished and that property shall vest absolutely in the Central Government free from all encumbrances.
The power of the Custodian under the  to allot any property to a person or to cancel an allotment existing in favour of a person rests on the fact that the property vests in him.
But the consequence of the publication of the notification by the Central Government under section 121 of the with respect to any property or a class of property would be to divest the Custodian completely of his right in the property flowing from section 8 of the  and vest that property in the Central Government.
No provision was however pointed out to us in either of these Acts whereunder despite the Vesting of the property in the Central Government the Custodian was empowered to deal with it.
Sub section.
Sub section.
That rule reads as follows Allotments which are the subject matter of dispute.
