Appeal No 52 of 1957.
KN Bhattacharya and P K Chatterjee for appellants.
March 22.
This appeal by certificate granted is directed against the judgment of the High Court of Judicature at Patna dated April 23 1953 confirming that of the Subordinate Judge Dhanbad dated November 30 1946.
The plaintiffs and the defendant are adjoining colliery owners at Kujama.
On August 2 1894 Raja of Jharia granted mukarrari lease of the coal and coal mining rights in 300 bighas of land in village Kujama to Satya Karan Banerjee and Girish Chandra Samanta.
On June 151900 his son Raja Durga Prasad Singh granted coal and coal 494 mining rights in respect of 400 bighas out of 592 bighas to one Jugal Kishore Lal.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal granted a lease of 96 bighas out of his 400 bighas to one D M Mathews.
bThat the area encroached upon by the defendants be ascertained and the defendants be directed to vacate the same.
cThat a permanent injunction be issued against the defendants restraining them from encroaching upon the plaintiffs  coal land and cutting and removing coal therefrom.
dThat an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiffs  coal land as also the quantity of the coal rendered unworkable be ascertained and a decree for the value thereof by way of damages be granted to the plaintiffs against the defendants.
The defendants denied that they had encroached upon the plaintiff   coal land and stated that the suit was barred by limitation.
They further pleaded that the 495 plaintiffs would not be entitled to any damages.
The learned Subordinate Judge held that the defendant had encroached upon the plaintiff  coal land that the suit was not barred by limitations and that they would be entitled to the reliefs prayed for.
On appeal the High Court of Patna accepted all the findings of the learned Subordinate Judge and dismissed the appeal.
The first question that arises for consideration is whether the defendants had encroached Upon the plaintiffs  coal land.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
The southern boundary of this leasehold is given as the northern boundary limit of the leasehold land of Girish Chandra Samanta and others and the western boundary is shown as the eastern boundary of Chatkari Jorh as per the map annexed.
The plan exhibit 3b annexed to this lease deed shows the boundary line between the two leaseholds.
On June 10 1901 Jugal Kishore Lal that is the predecessor in interest of the appellant demised a plot of 96 bighas carved out from his leasehold to Mathews under a deed exhibit C1.
Mathews in turn demised under exhibit D the said land of 96 bighas to Walji Khetan representing the appellant.
One interesting feature is that a map has been referred to in each of the documents and the said map shows that the line drawn from point A to point B is the boundary between the two leaseholds.
These documents to which the defendants  predecessors were parties contain a clear admission that the boundary line between the two leaseholds ie between appellant s and that of the respondents  is the line between 497 A and B shown in plan exhibit 3b.
It is settled law that a map referred to in a lease should be treated as incorporated in the lease and as forming part of the document see Darapali Sadagar vs Najir Ahamed 1.
The Commissioner appointed by the court tested the position of the six trijunction pillars shown in the map of lease dated November 23 1900 and found that two of the trijunction pillars were in their correct positions.
