926 1960.
September 27.
Ms.
In their return of turnover for the period from April 1 1954 to March 31 1955 they claimed exemption from Sales Tax in respect of sales of cotton of the total value of Rs 68493 2 6 and sales of castor oil of the total value of Rs 647509 1 6 on the ground that these sales were oil FOB contracts under which they continued to be the owners of the goods till the goods had crossed the customs barrier and thus entered the export stream and so no tax was realisable on these sales in view of the provisions of article 286 1b.
The Sales Tax Officer rejected this claim for exemption and assessed them to sales tax on a taxable turnover including these sales.
The sellers thereupon moved the Bombay High Court under article 226 of the Constitu tion for the issue of appropriate writs for quashing the order of assessment and the notice of demand and for prohibiting the Sales Tax Officer from taking any steps pursuant to the order or the notice.
The learned Judge who heard the petition rejected the sellers  contention that the goods remained their property till these crossed the customs frontier and therefore held that the sellers were not entitled to the benefit of article 2861b of the Constitution.
Against this decision the sellers appealed.
They however agreed with the Trial Judger that the sellers were liable to pay purchase tax under section 10b of the Bombay Sales Tax Act.
The only question for our decision in the appeal by the Sales Tax Officer is whether property in the goods passed on shipment or at some point of time before shipment.
The law is now well settled that if the property in the goods passes to the buyer after they have for the purpose of export to a foreign country crossed the customs frontier the sale has taken place in course of the export out of the territory of India.
The sellers  case is that these were sales on FOB contracts.
In certain circumstances eg if the seller takes the bill of  lading to his own order and parts with it to a third person the property in the goods it has been held does not pass to the buyer even on shipment.
The question whether there was such a different agreement has to be decided on a consideration of all the surrounding circumstances.
Appeals dismissed.
