AV Viswanatha Sastri and SP Varma for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
This appeal pursuant to a certificate granted by the Allahabad High Court under section 66A2 of the Income tax Act hereinafter referred to as the Act is directed against the judgment of the High Court in a reference under the Act answering the question referred to it in the negative.
By this arrangement the revenue or land collections of Jagir became payable by the Zamindars direct to the Government and by the grant of the pension Babu Hat Narain Singh and his successors no longer remained the proprietors of the Parganas or the Jagir and became entitled to merely a pension.
The letter by which the amount of pension was determined at Rs 363228 is dated 7th of July 1837 and was from H Elliot Esqr the Secretary Sadar Board of Revenue NWP Allahabad to J Thompson Esqr Offg.
Secretary to Lt Government NWP.
The source of the pension was a liability undertaken by the Government for extinguishing the proprietary rights of the Jagirdar and when the immediate source of the income was not land or rent collections from land it is difficult to hold that the receipt of the assessee was agricultural income within the meaning of Section 43viii of the Income tax Act.
The learned Additional Solicitor General on behalf of the appellant contends that according to the true interpretation of the letter dated July 7 1837 no right in the land revenue was granted to the assessee.
He relies on the decision of this Court in State of Uttar Pradesh vs Kunwar Sri Trivikram Narain Singh1.
That case arose out of the writ petition filed by the present respondent in the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad for a writ in the nature of mandamus calling upon the State of Uttar Pradesh to forbear from interfering with his right to regular payment of the pension allowance or Malikana payable in lieu of the hereditary estate of Harnarain Singh in respect of parganas Syudpore Bhettree and for an order for payment of the pension allowance or malikana as it fell due.
Shah J speaking for the Court observed Because the annual allowance is equal to a fourth share of the net revenue of the mahals the right of the respondent does not acquire the character of an interest in land or in land revenue.
Under the arrangement the entire land revenue was to be collected by the Government and in the collection Harnarain Singh and his descendants had no interest or obligation.
 The learned counsel for the respondent Mr A Viswanatha Sastri urges that on its true interpretation the letter dated July 7 1837 showed an arrangement for sharing collections.
Shah J observed The appellant has no beneficial interest in the lands which are the subject matter of the trust nor is he given under the trust a right to receive and appropriate to himself the income of the properties or a part thereof in lieu of any beneficial interest in that income.
 It follows from the decisions of the Privy Council and the judgments of this Court cited above that if it is held in this case that the source of the allowance or pension is the arrangement arrived at in 1837.
If the other method is adopted tax will not be payable .
Appeal allowed.
