C K Daphtary Attorney General section V Gupte Solicitor General Niren De Addl.
Solicitor General K B Mehta V Sagar H L Anand and B C Das Gupta for the appellants.
These two appeals by special leave raise a common question as to the interpretation of paragraph 5356 of the National Industrial Tribunal Bank Disputes Award of June 1962 popularly known as the Desai award and will be dealt with together.
It is unnecessary to set out the facts of the two appeals at this stage.
The Desai award dealt with the method of adjustment in the scales of pay fixed by it from para 5329 onwards.
In the first case the Desai award provided that the workmen would be fitted in the new scales of pay from January 1 1962 on stage to stage adjustment basis ie workmen who were drawing basic pay at a particular stage in the time scale of the Sastry award as modified would draw basic pay at the same stage in the new scale applicable to them under the Desai award.
Examples of how this would be done were given in para.
5348.
Paragraph 5356 then went on to provide how these workmen would be fitted in the Sastry award.
In the present appeals we are concerned with workmen who entered service before January 1 1959 and the fitment of these workmen was dealt with in para.
5356 of the Desai award and it is this paragraph which calls for interpretation in the present appeals.
We may at this stage mention that a similar question of fit ment was considered by the Sastry award in para.
Paragraph 292 as modified by the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision came up for interpretation before this Court in State Bank of India vs Prakash Chand Mehra.
1 As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
5356 of the Desai award we may set out the two paragraphs in parallel columns for comparison Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision For workmen who enterd service of the bank before 31st January 1950 1.
The workman s basic pay as on 31st January 1960 shall not be reduced in any case.
1 Desai award For workmen who entered service of the bank before 1st January 1959 i The workman s basic pay as on January 1 1959 shall not be reduced in any case.
b To the basic pay into which he is fitted under cl.
a the annual increments in the new scale as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of service in the same cadre as on 31st January 1950 up to a limit of 12 years  service hereafter one increment for every four years of service up to another 8 years service and after that one increment for every five years of service.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
NOTE  Omitted by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in view of change in cl.
After adjustments are made in accordance with clauses a b and c supra two further increments in the new scale will be added thereto for service for the two years 1951 and 1952.
901 ii Subject to rule i the adjusted basic pay in the scale provided in the Sastry award as modified shall not exceed what point to point adjustment would give him or the maximum in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified.
bTo the basic pay into which he is fitted under clause a annual increment or increment in scale provided by the Sastry award as modified as from that stage onwards should be added at the rate of one increment for every completed three years of his service in the same cadre as on 1st January 1959.
c Such increments shall not however exceed four in number.
d of cl.
 The dispute between the bank and the workmen in the present case was this.
The bank claimed that under cl.
ii of the Desai award the adjusted basic pay in the new scale was not to exceed what point to point adjustment would give an employee on January 1 1962.
ii and cl.
Further cl.
