T V R Tatachari for the appellants.
The properties involved in the suit consist of agricultural lands situated in Eragudi village Musiri taluk Tiruchirappalli district.
According to the appellants the said lands had been granted in Inam to the ancestor of one Ambalathadum Pachai Kandai Udayavar by the Carnatic Rulers before the advent of the British power in India.
The original grantdeeds are not available but at the time of the settlement of the Inams in the sixties of the last century Inam title deeds were issued in favour of the family of Pachai Kandai Udayavar.
The appellants averred that the properties covered by the grant bad been granted in Inam to the original grantee burdened with the obligation of performing certain services in a Matam.
The said properties were alienated from time to time and as a result of the last alienation the appellants became entitled to them.
The appellants in the present litigation claimed a declaration about their title to the properties in suit and a permanent injunction restraining respondents 1 to 3 who claimed to be the trustees of an alleged Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple at Eragudi from interfering with their possession of the same.
Respondent No 4 is the Deputy Commissioner Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments L9Sup.
CI66 9 122 Tiruchirappalli and he has been impleaded because he has purported to appoint respondents 1 to 3 as trustees of the said alleged Temple on the 7th March 1951.
Respondents 1 to 3 who have been appointed as trustees of the said temple by respondent No 4 obtained a certificate from him that the properties in question belonged to the Temple and on the basis of the said certificate they had filed an application before the Magistrate having jurisdiction in the area under section 87 of the Act for possession.
Before this order could be executed and possession delivered to respondents 1 to 3 the appellants instituted the present suit.
Respondents 1 to 3 resisted this suit and contended that the properties in suit had not been granted to the predecessor of Pachai Kandai Udayavar as alleged by the appellants.
Their case was that the said properties had been granted to the Pachai Kandai Udayavar Temple and formed part of its properties.
On these pleadings four substantive issues were framed by the learned trial Judge they were  whether the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam whether the grant of the Inam was a religious endowment whether plaintiffs have title to the suit properties and whether plaintiffs have acquired title by prescription  On the first two issues oral and documentary evidence was adduced by the parties.
The learned trial Judge examined the whole evidence and came to the conclusion that the grant of the Inam was a personal Inam and that it was not a grant in favour of the religious endowment within the meaning of the Act.
That is how the first two issues were answered in favour of the appellants.
In consequence the learned trial Judge also held that the appellants had proved their title to the suit properties.
The lower appellate Court considered three main points they were  whether the grant was in favour of Ambalathadum Pachai Kandai Udayavar whether there is a temple and whether the plaintiffs had prescribed their title to the suit properties by adverse possession.
The lower appellate Court made a finding against respondents 1 to 3 on point No 2.
The alienations must therefore be regarded only as repudiation of the trust.
This decision was challenged by respondents 2  3 before the Madras High Court in Second Appeal No 774 of 1957.
Subrahmanyam J who heard this appeal held that the original grant had been made in favour of the Temple.
There was evidence to show that the properties originally granted had been resumed by the Collector but the learned Judge took the view that the said resumption was only of the melwaram or assessment and that since the lands had been granted in Inam to the deity and its matam their title to the lands remained unaffected by the resumption proceedings.
Having thus held that the properties belonged to the Temple the learned Judge proceeded to consider the question of limitation by reference to the several alienations with which the present litigation is concerned.
It was conceded before the lower appellate Court that the new article was not retrospective in operation and that if the title of the alienees in regard to dharmadlayam properties had been acquired by adverse possession prior to 1 1 1929 it would not be affected by the provisions of article 134 B Thus considered the alienations in regard to items 1 2 part of item 3 items 7  8 and a portion of the well in item 5 sold under Ext.
The High Court held that the properties covered by these sale deeds fell within the purview of article 134 B and the appellants  title in respect thereof was open to challenge.
In consequence the appeal preferred by respondents 2  3 was partly allowed and the decree passed by the lower appellate court in regard to Exts.
He contends that article 134 B would not apply to the present case because the alienations evidenced by Exts.
A 3 A 6 and A 12 show that the alienors purported to transfer the properties not as Poojaris or managers of a temple but in their individual character as owners of the said properties.
