Thereafter a permit for importing the requisite machinery was granted to the Company.
As a result of the notice Lord Poole visited India in AprilMay 1965.
The firm of T T Krishnamachari  Sons approached appellant No 2 for the grant of sole selling agency of the products of the plant to be established in collaboration with Kali Chemie.
We were however not impressed by this argument.
We would however like to refer to and deal with one aspect of the argument bearing on the question of mala fides.
which they might reasonably expect including information relating to the calculation of the commission payable to a managing or other director the managing agent the secretaries and treasurers or the manager of the company.
Therefore according to him the Court is entitled to ascertain whether in fact any of those circumstances exists.
This is what was said by the Federal Court in Emperor vs Shibnath Banerjee2 and approved later by the Privy Council.
Thereafter he has set out what according to him are the true facts.
for which the collaborators had put the responsibility upon the Managing Director Petitioner No 2 ii Since its flotation the company has been continuously showing losses and nearly 13rd of its share capital has been wiped off iiithat the shares of the company which to start with were at a premium were being quoted on the Stock Exchange at half their face value and ivsome eminent persons who had initially accepted seats on the Board of Directors of the company had subsequently severed their connections with it due to differences with Petitioner No 2 on account of the manner in which the affairs of the company were being conducted.
the persons concerned with the management of the affairs of the company have been guilty of fraud misfeasance and other misconduct towards the company and its members.
It is enough that the facts show that it can be reasonably thought that the company s unfortunate position might have been caused by fraud and other species of dishonest action.
Coming to the third point of Mr Setalvad pointed out that four ex Directors of the Company who had resigned submitted a 327 memorandum to Mr T T Krishnamachari while he was holding the office of Finance Minister in which grave allegations were made concerning the affairs of the Company and the management of the Company by the second appellant.
The investigation according to Mr Setalvad.
They follow the scheme of sections 164 175 of the English Act of 1948.
