Appeal No 787 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 5 1961 of the Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree No 1012 of 1955.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
Sukumar Ghose for respondent No 1.
The Judgment of WANCHOO C J and MITTER J was delivered by MITTER J BHAGAVA J delivered a separate Opinion.
Mitter J This is an appeal by a certificate granted by the High Court at Calcutta from a judgment and decree in Second Appeal passed by that court in January 1961.
On the 18th June 1948 the plaintiff the appellant before us instituted Suit No 292 of 1948 for ejectment of three Persons namely Abdul Rahim Abdul Hamid and Abdul Gaffur from the property in suit a parcel of land about 1 cottah 8 chittaks being part of premises No 6  1 Shibtola Lane Entally Calcutta.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
The suit was contested only by the third defendant who filed a written statement in September 1948 contending that the suit was bad for non joinder of parties.
The appeal filed therefrom by the third defendant was dismissed by the Subordinate Judge.
The decree holder put the decree in execution and recovered possession of the land on December 18 1949.
The Calcutta Thika Tenancy Amendment Ordinance 1952 was passed on October 21 1952 introducing various changes in the Act and substituting a new definition of a thika tenant.
The effect of these provisions will be considered later on.
Before the Subordinate Judge a point was taken that after the coming into force of the Act of 1949 the Rent Controller alone had jurisdiction in respect of ejectment suits as the defendant appellant was a thika tenant.
The Subordinate Judge dismissed the plea on the ground that the defendant appellant had not erected the structures on the land and was not a successor in interest of the tenant but only a transferee.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
The learned Judge held that at the time when the appeal of the defendant was disposed of by the Subordinate Judge the rights of the parties were governed by the Thika Tenancy Act of 1949 and the definition of a thika tenant in that Act was not such as to afford any protection to the appellant.
the learned Judge felt that the question whether the appellant was entitled to the benefit of that Act had to be re examined and consequently he remanded the matter to the lower appellate court with a direction that there should be a fresh decision of the case after considering the law applicable and taking further evidence if necessary.
On this occasion the main plank of the argument on behalf of the landlord was that with the omission of section 29 civil courts became unable to remit ejectment suits to the controller with the result that the Act as finally amended could not apply to pre Act suits and thika tenants could get no relief under the Act.
We have now to trace the relevant changes in the law made from time to time and see whether the landlord was entitled to eject Abdul Gaffur notwithstanding the Act as amended from time to time.
Section 2 defined a thika tenant  as meaning any person who under the system commonly known as thika thika masik utbandi thika masik thika bastu or under and other like system held land under another person whether under a written lease or otherwise and was or but for a special contract would be liable to pay rent at a monthly or any other periodical rate for that land to such other person and had erected any structure on such land and was entitled to use it for residential purposes or for manufacturing or business purposes and included the suc cessors in interest of such person.
Section 3 Provided that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force no decree or order for the ejectment of a thika tenant shall be executed during the continuance in operation of the Ordinance.
The incidents of thika tenancy were mentioned in various sections from section 3 to section II contained in Chapter 11 of the Act.
section 3 provided that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any contract a thika tenant shall subject to the provisions of the Act be liable to ejectment from his holding on one or more of the specified grounds and not otherwise.
5 of section 2 the definition of a thika tenant or violation of a condition consistent with the Act by a breach of which he was under the terms of a contract between himself and his landlord liable to be ejected iii refusal to agree to pay rent at such enhanced rate as might be determined under section 25 iv requirement 174 of the land by the landlord for his own occupation or for the purpose of building on the land or otherwise developing the land except during any period limited by a registered lease under which the tenant might be holding v failure on the part of the holding for his own residential manufacturing or business purpose for more than six consecutive months omitting the priviso and vi on the expiry of a registered lease in favour of the tenant.
Under section 27 any person aggrieved by an order of the Controller might present an appeal in writing either to the Chief Judge of the Court of Small Causes in the Presidency town or to 175 the District Judge of a district in which the holding was situate.
Sub section.
Section 29 on the other hand was made applicable to all proceedings including proceedings in execution which were pending at the date of the commencement of the Act.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
