ivil Appeals No 625630 of 1967.
It consists of eight district and sessions judges two additional district and sessions judges secretary to government in law department superintendent and legal remembrancer law department deputy secretary to government in the law department member administrative tribunal and the Registrar of the Orissa High Court in all 15 in number.
Out of these the district and sessions judges and additional district and sessions judges were discharging purely judicial functions.
the power to appoint the Registrar of the High Court is exclusively that of the Chief Justice.
Neither the High Court as such nor the Governor has any hand in his appointment.
The power to appoint the secretaries to the government is that of the Governor.
In Orissa as in most of the other States that practice continued till the decision of tiffs Court in the State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad and others1.
Obviously when the Governor promulgated the Orissa Superior Judicial Service Rules 1963 he proceeded on the basis that the power to transfer the district judges and addl.
The High Court insisted that ordinarily judicial officers should not hold those posts for more than three years.
On that account there appears to have been some friction between the High Court and the gov ernment for some years past.
judges was posted as superintendent and legal remembrancer in March 1962 Shri KK Bose addl.
That was a non cadre post.
In February 1965 the High Court took a policy decision to the effect that as a general rule judicial officers working in special posts whether cadre or non cadre outside their regular line should be recalled to the regular line after the completion of three years.
But when it came to the question of implementing that policy the government was reluctant.
We do not think that it was proper for the government to do so.
These orders were duly notified in the Orissa Gazette.
It directed the government to imple 159 ment its orders forthwith.
Shri Sarjoo Prasad learned counsel for the High Court of Orissa at the very commencement of his arguments conceded that the order of the High Court holding that those officers had no authority to hold the posts in question is unsustainable.
In view of that concession it is unnecessary for us to go into that question further.
district and sessions judge.
the State government or the High Court.
