Appeals under article 132 1 of the Constitution from the judgment and order dated 28th August 1951 of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta Harries CJ Chakravarthi Das Banerjee and SR Das Gupta JJ in Civil Revision Cases Nos 942 and 1113 of 1951.
MC Setalvad Attorney General for India B Sen with him for the appellant in Case No 297.
V Rajaram Iyer Advocate General of Hyderabad R Ganapathy Iyer with him for the State of Hyderabad.
This is an appeal by the State of West Bengal from a judgment of a Full Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Calcutta quashing the conviction of the respondent by the Special Court established under sec tion 3 of the West Bengal Special Courts Ordinance 1949 Ordinance No 3 of 1949 which was replaced in March 1950 by the West Bengal Special Courts Act 1950 West Bengal Act X of 1950 hereinafter referred to as the Act.
Section 3 empowers the State Government by notification in the official gazette to constitute Special Courts and section 4 provides for the appointment of spe cial judges to preside over such courts.
In other words it cannot be said that the special procedure provided in the Act is on its face calculated to prejudice the fair trial of persons subjected to it.
concurred applied the test of what may be called reasonable classification and held that although the need for a speedier trial than what is possible under the procedure prescribed 291 by the Code of Criminal Procedure might form the basis of a reasonable classification and section 5 1 could not be regarded as discriminatory in so far as it authorises the State Government to direct that certain offences or classes of offences or classes of cases should be tried by a special court the provision was discriminatory and violative of article 14 of the Constitution in so far as it purported to vest in the State Government an absolute and arbitrary power to refer to a special court for trial any cases  which must include an individual case whether the duration of such a case is likely to be long or not .
When an Act gives power which may and can offend against a provision or provisions of the Constitution such an Act is ultra vires though it could be administered so as not to offend against the Constitution and he relied in support of this view on certain observations in the judgment of the majority in the Crossroads case1.
Chakravartti and Das JJ.
 Before considering whether section 51 infringes to any and what extent the constitutional prohibition under article 14 it is necessary to ascertain the true scope and intendment of the impugned provision.
As the very object of the Act was to provide for speedier trials by instituting a system of special courts with a simplified and shortened procedure it is reasonable to conclude that so far as the legislature was concerned its intention was that courts constituted under the Act and applying such procedure should deal only with cases requiring speedier trial and that accordingly the State Government should refer to such courts only cases of that description.
Yet on a sound construction of every Act of Parliament I take it the words of the enacting part must be confined to that which is the plain object and general intention of the legislature in passing the Act and that the preamble affords a good clue to discover what that object was.
Its exercise must involve bona fide consideration of special features or circumstances which call for a comparatively prompt disposal of the case or cases proposed to be referred.
294 pledge of the protection of equal laws Yick Wo vs Hopkins 1 that is Jaws that operate alike on all persons under like circumstances.
This is further made clear by defining law in article 13 which renders void any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by Part III as including among other things any order or notification so that even executive orders or notifica tions must not infringe article 14.
Indeed the very idea of classification is that of inequality so that it goes without saying that the mere fact of inequality in no manner determines this matter of constitutionality.
It seems like a contradiction to say that a law having equality of operation may yet give equality of protection.
Government is not a simple thing.
By admitting only their relatives and friends 1  4  2  5   3 297 to apprenticeship the members of the board made it impossi ble with occasional exceptions for others to be appointed as State pilots.
 These decisions seem to my mind to reveal a change of approach marked by an increasing respect for the State s regulatory power in dealing with equal protection claims and underline the futility of wordy formulation of so called tests in solving problems presented by concrete cases.
If the discretion given to the State Government should be exercised improperly or arbitrarily the administrative action may be challenged as discriminatory but it cannot affect the constitutionality of the law.
In Romesh Thapar s case the constitu tionality of a provincial enactment purporting to authorise the Provincial Government to regulate the circulation of a news sheet in the Province of Madras for the purpose of securing the public safety or the maintenance of public order was challenged as being inconsistent with the peti tioner s fundamental right to freedom of speech and expres sion conferred by article 191a of the Constitution.
Missouri vs Lewis 1.
As pointed out by Chakravartti J 1  2 321 US I 305 The notification by which the case of Anwar Ali Sirkar the respondent herein was directed to be tried by the special court did not relate merely to that case but covered five more cases in each of which the accused were several in number.
One is also amazed at the volume of case law which has grown round this provision which shows the extent to which its wide language can be stretched and the large variety of situations in which it has been invoked.
One of these principles is that article 14 is designed to pro tect all persons placed in similar circumstances against legislative discrimination and if the legislature takes care to 1  2  307 reasonably classify persons for legislative purposes and if it deals equally with all persons belonging to a well de fined class it is not open to the charge of denial of equal protection on the ground that the law does not apply to other persons.
The impugned Act has completely ignored the principle of classification followed in the Code and it proceeds to lay down a new procedure without making any attempt to particularize or classify the offences or cases to which it is to apply.
It is not enough that justice should be done.
