iminal Appeal No112 of 1965.
A section R Chari M K Ramamurthi Vineet Kumar and Shyamala Pappu for the appellants.
J P Goyal V C Prasar and section P Singh for respondent No 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
The relevant facts are these.
On September 10 1963 the Nyaya Panchayat assembled and evidence was led before it.
The case was adjourned to December 25 1963.
On October 11 1963 Mahabir accused made an application under section 85 of the UP Panchayat Raj Act 1947 to SDM Deoria to transfer the proceedings on the ground that the complainant Yashoda was father of Bunna Prasad Sarpanch of Nyaya Panchayat Jokha Khas.
On November 28 1963 the SDM rejected this application.
An urgent copy of the order was applied for and obtained on that very day and the counsel sent a telegram in the following words Allahabad He 20 Baldeopd cashier Trust Sdr GR Mahabir application admitted stay granted Banwarilal.
 117 It is alleged on the side of the applicant Mahabir that immediately after the receipt of the telegram an application accompanied by an affidavit and the telegram of his counsel in the High Court was presented before the Nyaya Panchayat with the prayer to stay further proceedings but the Sarpanch refused to take it.
This fact was denied and the High Court seems not to have relied on this fact in its judgment.
It seems to us that it is not proved on the evidence here that any such application was made before the Nyaya Panchayat.
No application dated December 21 1963 which was not accepted by the Nyaya Panchayat has been produced.
In the affidavit accompanying the application however no mention was made about Mahabir having informed the Panchayat Adalat of the stay order or the fact that the order and the application was not being entertained by the Adalat.
It happened that the SDM was absent on December 23 1963 and papers were put up before Shri section K Srivas tava Additional Sub Divisional Magistrate who issued the order Put up with records.
But as the notice against Shri Srivastava has been discharged by the High Court we need not give any further details about his various orders On December 25 1963 the Nyaya Panchayat met and proceeded to hear the case.
The order sheet reads thus  Put up today the 25th December 1963.
The complainant and the accused are present.
 This order was signed by three Panchas Phagu Parsad Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.
The application of Mahabir referred to in the order reads thus 118 lm15.
Sir It is submitted that I have filed a writ petition in the above case in the High Court.
It has been admitted by the High Court which has stayed proceedings also in this case.
 We looked at this so called affidavit and found.
 Affidavits were filed in the High Court by Baldeo Prasad pairokar of Mahabir Burma Prasad the Sarpanch and Mahabir and statements of Phagu Prasad and Bunna Prasad were recorded on oath.
in his statement stated As the paper of Mahabir s application and affidavit was not good we had asked him to get them written on a proper paper obtained from the Tehsil.
We had also told him to get the affidavit verified before some Tehsil authority.
According to him the Panchas did not tell Mahabir that his affidavit was not proper they however told him to get it verified in Tehsil and that it should be duly sealed.
passed by the High Court.
 The High Court disbelieved the explanation of the Panchas given before it because no mention of these was made in the order sheet dated December 25 1963.
The learned counsel for the appellants Mr Chari says that no contempt of court has been established because a Court is entitled not to act on an application which is not accompanied by an affidavit properly sworn to or a certified copy of the order He urges that the Nyaya Panchayats exercised judicial powers and even if the Panchas erred in not staying proceedings before finding them guilty of contempt of court it should be definitely proved that the order was passed deliberately to by pass the order of the High Court.
The only material before them was the application dated December 25 1963 which was not supported by any affidavit sworn to before a person authorised to 1 1962 Supp 3 SCR 127138.
121 administer oaths.
