The first matter related to fixation of wages including minimum wages and this was covered by items Nos 1 3 4 22 and 26 in the Schedule attached to the Order of Reference.
In the course of the hearing of the appeal learned counsel appearing on behalf of the workmen further gave up some of the points which were the subject matter of the items mentioned above so that in this judgment we need deal with only those points which were argued by him in support of the appeal.
Instead what the Tribunal did was to work out the minimum wages which should be paid on an entirely different basis.
The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co Limited.
vs Workmen1 where it was held  It is now well settled that the principle of industry cum region has to be applied by an Industrial Court when it proceeds to consider questions like wage structure dearness allowance and similar conditions of service.
 The Tribunal in giving its decision kept this principle in view but came to the finding of fact that there were no other concerns in the same line of business as the Company in the region which could be compared with the Company.
The Tribunal found that there are only two other paper mills in the region.
They are Titaghur Paper Mill No 3 situated at Chaudwar and the JK Paper Mills at Rayagada.
The Tribunal found that the Company is an old established business carrying on manufacture of paper on a very large scale.
The strength of their labour force and the annual production were also very mueh lower.
Even the profits earned were much smaller.
On these facts the Tribunal held that it would not be proper to compare the wage structure for these Paper Mills with that of the Company.
On this finding it is clear that the region cure industry principle laid down in the ease of French Motor Car Co Ltd 1 could not have been applied by the Tribunal when fixing the wages in the Company.
We think that the criticism of learned counsel for the workmen that the Tribunal committed an error at this stage in merely holding that the facts found by it justified a revision and in not proceeding to fix minimum wages on the basis of the other industries in the region is fully justified.
in the Company must be fixed at the average level of wages in the other comparable industries in the region.
in the same region.
Thus the total minimum wage packet which a workman should be entitled to receive was fixed by the Tribunal at Rs 84.
