P K Chatterjee and section P Nayar for the appellant.
I N Shroff for respondent No 1.
section K Dholakia and Vineet Kumar for respondent No 2.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Sikri J.
The plaintiff failed before the Civil Judge Rajkot but on appeal succeeded before the District Judge Central Saurashtra inasmuch as he declared order dated February 24 1955 illegal and void.
The plaintiff appealed to the High Court claiming arrears of salary and the State of Bombay filed cross objections praying that the suit be dismissed.
The State of Maharashtra filed as application for leave to appeal under the Letters Patent but this  was dismissed.
The Gondal State merged with the United States of Saurashtra.
On March 7 1954 he was served with a charge sheet.
The plaintiff filed a written statement on September 4 1954 and an enquiry was held by Mr Gangopadhyay.
The plaintiff appeared before that officer and cross examined witnesses.
He was also allowed to appear through an Advocate in the enquiry proceedings.
The Enquiry Officer made a report and on or about January 7 1955 the following notice was issued to him calling upon him to show cause why he should not be dismissed from service To Shri Bhaishanker A Joshi Accountant Rajkot Central Prison Under suspension Charges framed against you under this office No C 14 dated 27 3 54 and in particular the charges of having accepted illegal gratification from prisoner Ratilal Jivan have been established to the satisfaction of Government.
You are hereby asked to show cause why the punishment of dismissal from service should not be inflicted upon You.
This order was amended on February 9 1955 in which it was stated that the aforesaid order should be read so as to show that the plaintiff was dismissed from service on account of charge of accepting illegal gratification from prisoner Ratilal Jivan having been conclusively proved against him in the departmental inquiries conducted against him by the Government.
2  179.
RKPS Appeal dismissed.
