Appeal No 949 of 1966.
M C Chagla and B R Agarwala for the appellant.
The appeal was originally heard by J C Shah Ag.
The case was twice re manded to the Tribunal.
The first Order of the Court remanding the case to the Tribunal was delivered by Shah Ag C J Ms Amarchand Sobhachand a firm registered under the Indian Income tax Act 1922 carried on business at Madras in drugs chemicals mercury camphor and silk yam and as money lenders.
There were two partners of the firm Mohanlal Sagmal and Seshmal Sobhachand and Ramniklal and Lakshmichand minors were admitted to the benefits of the partnership each with 732 share in the profits.
The appellants had for a long time business relations with a firm styled Bhojaji Sobhachand carrying on business at Bombay as importers of yam and also as agents and adathias.
Sobhachand one of the partners of Bhojaji Sobhachand with 16 share in the profit and loss is the father of Seshmal Ramniklal and Lakshmichand partners of the appellants.
In the books of account of the appellants which were main tained according to the mercantile system there was a current sarafi account in respect of their transactions with the Bombay firm in which were credited the funds transmitted from Bombay in respect of their business transactions.
Entries relating to interest were posted till the end of Samvat Year 2006 in the account on the amount due at the foot of the account.
He held that the debt .
The Income tax Appellate Tribunal accordingly confirmed the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
A bad and doubtful debt due to the taxpayer written off as irrecoverable in the books of account was properly allowable in computing the taxable profits from business profession or vocation where accounts were not kept on the cash basis if the debt was in respect of a loan made in the course of the taxpayer s business as a banker or money lender or when the taxpayer was carrying on any other business the debt was in respect of that other business.
A bad and doubtful debt due to an assessee in respect of banking or money lending business is allowable under section 102 xi if it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of such business.
A bad and doubtful debt in respect of a business other than banking or money lending is allowable even if it is not in respect of loan  but a debt due in the course of the business of a money lending is not allowable unless it is in respect of loans made in the ordinary course of his business.
In the interest of justice we direct that the question be reframed as follows  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal erred in disallowing the debt of Rs 268385 written off by the assessee in their books of account as irrecoverable.
The statement submitted by the Tribunal is also inadequate.
Counsel for the Revenue however contended that there are three important circumstances which appear from the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Income tax Officer from which it may be inferred that the advances made by the appellants to the Bombay firm were not in respect of loans in the ordinary course of the business of the appellants nor in respect of their other business.
Counsel said that 1 Sobhagchand Amarchand partner of the Bombay firm is the father of Seshmal one of the partners of the appellants and of the minors Ramniklal and Lakshmichand who are admitted to the benefits of partnership 2 that large amounts of money were advanced shortly before the Bombay firm closed its business and 3 that there was a consistant practice for paying or receiving interest on the 420 amounts due at the foot of the account but no interest was charged by the appellants in respect of the dues at the foot of the account at the end of Samvat Years 2007 and 2008.
We therefore direct that the Income tax Appellate Tribunal do submit a supplementary statement of the case on the question reframed on both the branches of section 102xi of the Indian Income tax Act 1922.
After receipt of the supplementary statement of case from the Tribunal the appeal was heard by J C Shah K section Hegde and A N Grover JJ.
The order of the Court was delivered by Shah J.
The Tribunal will submit the statement within three months from the date on which the papers reach the Tribunal.
After receipt of the second supplementary statement of case from the Tribunal the appeal was finally heard by J C Shah CJ K section Hegde and A N Grover JJ.
The appellant firm which will hereinafter be referred to as the assessee carried on business in drugs chemicals mercury camphor and art silk yam as also in money lending over a number of years.
Two minors Ramniklal Sobhachand and Lakshmichand Sobhachand were admitted to the benefits of the partnership.
In the assessment of income tax of the appellant for the assessment year 1952 53 relevant to the account year Samvat 2008 the assessee claimed a deduction of Rs 268385 as bad debt due from the Bombay firm incurred by that firm in the course of business transactions.
The appeal fails and is dismissed.
