l Misc.
Petitions Nos.
Applications by respondent No 1 for revocation of the certificate granted by the Madras High Court on 15th October 1968 under article 1331a  b of the Constitution of India.
AND Civil Appeals Nos 2183 and 2184 of 1968.
VP Raman DN Mishra and JB Dadachanji for the appellant.
MK Ramamurthi Shyamala Pappu and Vineet Kumar for respondent No 1.
Ms Tarapore  Company hereinafter called the plaintiffs applied in Suit No 118 of 1967 for an interim injunction restraining the Bank of India Ltd the first defendant in the suit from taking any steps in pursuance of a letter of credit opened in favour of Ms VO Tractors Export Moscow the second defendant.
Ramamurthi J by order dated April 12 1968 granted an interim injunction restraining encashment of the letters of credit pending disposal of the suit.
In appeals under the Letters Patent preferred by the second defendant.
the High Court of Madras set aside that order.
Against the orders passed in the two appeals the plaintiffs applied for certificate under Arts1331a and 1331b of the Constitution.
By our order dated October 28 1968 we ordered that the certificate granted by the High Court do stand revoked.
We set out the reasons in support of that order.
That is a matter not in dispute.
The expression judgment in article 133  1  in the context in which it occurs means a final adjudication by the Court of the rights of the parties and that an interlocutory judgment even if it decides an issue or issues without finally determining the rights and liabilities of the parties is not a judgment however cardinal the issue may be.
In the present case not even an issue has been decided and it is not contended that the order of the High Court amounts to a judgment or a decree.
The expression final order it has been held by a long course of authorities occurring in section 205 of the Government of India Act 1935 section 109 of the Code of Civil Procedure and article 1331 of the Constitution means a final decision on the rights of the parties in dispute in a suit or proceeding if the rights of the parties in dispute in the suit or proceeding remain to be tried after the order the order is not final.
The orders now under appeal do not finally dispose of those rights but leave them to be determined by the Courts in the ordinary way.
Soon after the suit was instituted the plaintiff firm was adjudicated insolvent and the official assignee was impleaded as an additional plaintiff.
The official assignee declined to proceed with the suit and the suit was dismissed by the trial court.
Against that order an appeal was preferred to the Judicial Committee which was held not maintainable.
During the pendency of the suit them Bombay Prevention of Ex communication Act 42 of 1949 was enacted and one of the issues raised in the suit was whether the order of ex communication was invalid.
