Appeal No 1671 of 1966.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated March 31 1965 of the Madras High Court in Appeal No 276 of 1962.
AV Rangam for the respondents.
425 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by Ramaswami J.
The Subordinate Judge held that the appellant was a hereditary trustee and the suit was not barred by limitation.
The respondents took the matter in appeal to the Madras High Court which by its judgment dated March 31 1965 allowed the appeal and set aside the judgment of the Subordinate Judge Nagapattinam.
Section 6 sub section.
9 of Madras Act 19 of 1951 states In this Act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context 9 hereditary trustee  means the trustee of a religious institution succession to whose office devolves by hereditary right or is regulated by usage or is specifically provided for by the founder so long as such scheme of succession is in force This Act has been substituted by Madras Act 22 of 1959 but the definition of the trustee is identical in both the Acts.
The question to be considered in this appeal is whether the appellant is a hereditary trustee Within the meaning of the section.
The definition includes three types of cases 1 succession to the office of trusteeship devolving by hereditary right 2 succession 426 to such office being regulated by usage and 3 succession being specifically provided for by the founder on condition that the scheme of such succession is still in force.
It was said that according to the usage of the temple the trustees were elected for a period of one year each at a meeting of the members of the Sangunatha Mudaliar Community and so the appellant must be held to be a trustee within the meaning of section 69 of Act 19 of 1951.
This is so whether the trustee has a beneficial interest of some sort or not see Ganesh Chunder Dhur vs Lal Behary2 and Bhabatarini vs Ashalata3.
Mukherjea J in Angurbala Mullick vs Debabrata Mullick4 delivering the judgment of this Court observed Unless therefore the founder has disposed of the shebaitship in any particular manner and this right of disposition is inherent in the founder or except when usage or custom of a different nature is proved to exist shebaitship like any other species of heritable property follows the line of inheritance from the founder In the case of mutts whose heads are often celibates and sometimes sanyasins special rules of succession obtain by custom and usage.
In that case the custom in 1 2 63 I A 448.
3 70 IA 57.
4  5 5 ALR.
The possibility of A being the successor A himself is not merely an anomaly it is an impossible legal position.
