721 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 24 1967 of the High Court of Mysore in Criminal Appeal No.
29 of 1965.
A section R Chari and R V Pillai for the appellants.
Shyamala Pappu and section P Nayar for the respondent.
 These are 14 appellants who appeal against their conviction under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentences of 5 years  rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs 1000 passed on them.
Originally 20 persons were tried and convicted for the same offence and received a like sentence.
14 alone have appealed to this Court.
The facts are that two traders in cloth sent their wares in carts for sale.
When the carts reached a Nala called Heri Halla about three miles from Lingsugur at about 11 30 pm 20 persons are said to have approached the carts and pelted stones.
It was a dark night and the assailants were not identified.
It appears that four out of the six carts escaped but two carts were looted.
The police investigated the case and arrested the 20 persons who were accused in the case as being the culprits involved in this incident.
It is not necessary to go into rest of the case or the evidence on which the case of dacoity was established because dacoity as such is not challenged before us.
In these searches cloth which was undoubtedly stolen at the time of the dacoity was found in their houses.
The High Court and the Court below drew from this the conclusion that the appellants were themselves the dacoits and convicted them accordingly under section 395 of the Indian Penal Code and sentenced them to  5 years  rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs 100 .
In this appeal the only contention raised by Mr A section R Chari is that the presumption that they were dacoits ought not to have been drawn since the circumstances do not admit the drawing of such a presumption in the case According to Mr Chari the presumption to be drawn ought to have been one under section 41 1 722 of Indian Penal Code or at the most tinder section 412 of the Indian Penal Code but not of complicity in the crime of dacoity.
He contends that the circumstances under which the one presumption or the other may be drawn under section 114 of the have not been stated by law and therefore it is necessary always to start with the lesser presumption and draw the higher presumption only when there is some other evidence to show the complicity of the persons in the crime itself.
According to him there is no other evidence in the case which points to the complicity of the 14 appellants in the crime of dacoity and therefore as they cannot be suspected to be dacoits themselves the only presumption to be drawn is one of receivers of stolen property or as receivers of property which was stolen in a dacoity.
In our opinion the law advocated by Mr Chari is not correct.
If there is other evidence to connect an accused with the crime itself however small the finding of the stolen property with him is a piece of evidence which connects him further with the crime.
There is then no question of presumption.
The evidence strengthens the other evidence already against him.
It is only when the accused cannot be connected with the crime except by reason of possession of the fruits of crime that the presumption may be drawn.
In what circumstances the one presumption or the other may be drawn it is not necessary to state categorically in this case.
It all depends upon the circumstances under which the discovery of the fruits of crime are made with a particular accused.
It has been stated on more than one occasion that if the gap of time is too large the presumption that the accused was concerned with the crime itself gets weakened.
committed.
The reason is obvious.
They need not be stated here for they differ from case to caseIn the present case the goods stolen were a large quantity of cloth taken for sale to the market.
Immediately afterwards a number of searches were made and the goods were found with various persons who were prosecuted as offenders and they have been presumed to be involved in the dacoity itself.
The sentence of fine will stand.
