1303 Appeal by Special Leave granted by the Supreme Court by its Order dated the 31st July 1953 from the Judgment and Order dated the 15th May 1953 of the High Court of Judicature for the State of Pepsu at Th Patiala in Criminal Appeal No 140 of 1952 arising out of the Judgment and Order dated the 31st March 1952 of the Court of Magistrate 1st Class Patiala in Challan Case No 160102 of 1951.
Jai Gopal Sethi Naunit Lal with him for the appellant.
N section Bindra Porus A Mehta and P G Gokhale with him for the respondent.
February 28.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMA AYYAR J.
The appellant was a Sub Divisional Officer in the Public Works Department Pepsu and was at the material dates in charge of certain works at a place called Karhali.
It was part of his duties to disburse the wages to the workmen employed in the works and the procedure usually followed was that be drew the amount required from the treasury and paid the same to the emplo yees against their signatures or thumb impressions in the monthly acquittance roll.
In the roll for April 1951 one Parma was mentioned as a khalasi menial servant and a sum of Rs 51 shown as paid to him for his wages the payment being vouched by thumbimpression.
Against this judgment there was an appeal by the State to the High Court of Pepsu which held that proof that the thumb impression in the acquittance roll was that of the appellant was sufficient when taken along with other circumstances to establish his guilt and accordingly convicted him both under section 465 and section 409 of the Indian Penal Code.
In support of  the appeal it is argued by Mr Jai Gopal Sethi that the conviction of the appellant is illegal as sanction had not been obtained under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for his prosecution that the evidence on record is insufficient to establish an offence either under section 465 or section 409 of the Indian Penal Code and that there having been an acquittal of the appellant by the trial Magistrate the materials on record did not justify a reversal of that verdict by the appellate Court.
The facts bearing on this question are that there was an application by the Department for sanction to prosecute the appellant for an offence under section 409 and that the Chief Secretary Home Department sent the communication Exhibft PX stating that he had been directed to convey sanction of the Government to his prosecution.
But after the disposal of the appeal by the High Court it was discovered that in fact there was no order of the Government sanctioning the prosecution and that the Chief Secretary had committed a mistake in sendidg the communication Exhibit PX.
1305 The position therefore is that the prosecution which has resulted in the conviction of the appellant was initiated without any sanction under section 1971 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and if sanction under that section is necessary as contended for by Mr Sethi then the entire proceedings including the conviction must be quashed.
3 1948 LR 75 IA 41.
Appeal allowed.
