From the judgment and order dated the 8th February 1967 of Le Delhi High Court in Civil Writ No 531 D of 1964.
Whether the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry New Delhi Respondent 1 is a commercial establishment within the meaning of s25 of the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 1954 for short the Act is the sale question that falls for determination in this appeal by certificate directed against the judgment dated February 8 1967 of the High Court of Delhi.
The primary objects of the Federation as given in the Memorandum of Association are a To promote Indian business in matters of inland and foreign trade transport industry and manufactures finance and all other economic subjects and to encourage Indian banking shipping and insurance.
b To encourage friendly feeling end unanimity among business community and association on all subjects connected with the common good of Indian business.
fTo provide for arbitration in respect of disputes arising in the course of trade industry or transport or other business matters and to secure the services 350 of expert technical and other men to that end if necessary or desirable.
z4 4 The income and property of the Federation whencesoever derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the Federation as set forth in the Memorandum of Association and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend bonus or otherwise by way of profit to the members of the Federation.
The scales of subscription on the basis of turnover deposits or premia for associate members have also been prescribed.
The Chief Inspector of Shops and Establishments Delhi Appellant 2 herein called upon the Federation to register its establishment he under the Act The Federation failed to comply with the direction and contended that it was not an establishment as defined in section 29 of the Act.
This contention did not find favour with the Chief Inspector who in consequence made a complaint under the Act for prosecution of the Secretary of the Federation Respondent 2 herein under the appropriate penal provisions of the Act in the Court of the Magistrate.
The Federation then moved the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution for bringing up and quashing the order dated February 4 1964 passed by the Chief Inspector Appellant 2.
This contention was negatived in these terms    that contention overlooks the fact that the advice in question is not tendered for any consideration.
The title of the Act is Delhi Shops and Establishments Act 1954.
