B D Bal with A G Ratnaparkhi for the appellant.
He also acquired certain properties and the said temple with the properties constituted Shri Vithal Rukhamai Sansthan of Amalner.
The sansthan had movable property of the value of Rs 19164 and immovable properties of the value of Rs 106000 and the average gross annual income as well as the average annual expenditure was Rs 11000 .
After the passing of the Bombay Public Trusts Act 1950 No 29 of 1950 briefly the Act an application under section 18 of that Act was filed by three persons Bhaskarrao Chimanrao Deshmukh Ramrao Sahebrao Deshmukh and Ramkrishna Tryambak Deshpande as constituted attorneys of Vasudeobuwa who was described in the application as the owner of the property.
The word Buwa  means saint.
On behalf of the applicants representing the Sansthan evidence of the attorney Ramkrishna Deshpande was recorded and he was cross examined by the assessors as well as by the Assistant Charity Commissioner.
The applicants thereupon filed an appeal under section 70 of the Act before the Charity Commissioner Bombay who by his order of August 31 1957 affirmed the decision of the Assistant Charity Commissioner.
That led to an application under section 72 of the Act to the District Judge of West Khandesh at Dhulia which was duly filed on behalf of Purshottambuwa who meanwhile succeeded Guru Vasudeobuwa as owner of the Sansthan.
Hence this appeal by special leave which was obtained on March 29 1968 after condonation of delay in the peculiar circumstances of the case arising out of revocation by the High Court of its earlier certificate in favour of the appellant on account of default of deposit of security.
The High Court took note of both oral as well as documentary evidence.
It is not disputed by Mr Bal appearing on behalf of the appellant that the Sansthan in question is an endowment.
Mr Bal further contends that the High Court failed to consider all the material documents filed on behalf of the appellant except only exhibit 35 and that the conclusion was highly erroneous being contrary to the one that had been reached by the District Judge on appraisal of the entire documentary evidence.
Since the grievance of the appellant is directed against the High Court s absolute failure to consider all the documentary evidence we may deal with that aspect first.
The Sanad being an ancient Royal grant is a very important piece of evidence to show that although Sakharam Maharaj the founder of the temple had already been succeeded by Guru Govindbuwa and the latter by Balkrishnabuwa the land had been held in the year 1860 61 in the name of the Devasthan.
It is in the name of the Devasthan alone that the grant was continued by the Government.
This would go to show that the Government recognised the Sansthan with the temple as a public religious endowment and only on that basis the grant was continued.
Then came Vasudeo.
After him the present Buwa Purshottam came to Gadi.
Guru Govindbuwa was the second in the line of succession after Sakharam the founder and Balkrishnabuwa being the third in the line.
This is a document which was relied upon both by the District Judge as well as by the High Court.
