39 40 of 1976.
From the Judgment and Order dated 1 12 1975 of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Criminal Original Nos.
Deven Chetan Das Advocate General Haryana and RN Sachthey for the respondent.
243 The appellants wrote a letter on 20 February 1975 to the President with copies to the Prime Minister Chief Justice of India the Chief Minister of Haryana and the Chief Jus tice of Punjab and Haryana High Court.
The letter was signed by 15 members of the Bar belonging to the District Bar Association Bhiwani.
During the course of the meeting the learned Judge criticised the Government s policy in regard to its attitude towards the judiciary.
On the  whole he gave an impression that he was not a Judge but a politician who had come to Bar Room.
He also accepted the hospitality of the Technological Institute of Textiles Mills people who also took him for a sight seeing from Dadri to Pilani.
with copies to the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court the Chief Minister of Haryana the Chief Justice of India and the Prime Minister.
Then the Honourable Judge turned down the request and replied that it is never possible in the present system of Government of India.
Chandrawati.
During his stay in the rest house he also discussed the teachers agitation and individual position of various political leaders in the State.
He also enquired all about Shri Sohan Lal a leader of the teacher s movement in the State.
The letter concluded by saying that the Hon ble Judge during his entire stay in his tour deliberately showed the bent of his mind towards commu nism while exchanging view on various matters.
On a perusal of the con tents thereof a prima facie case of criminal contempt is made out.
It is an article of faith with the deponent that dignity and respect of all Courts and of all Judges and particularly of the High Court must be maintained for amongst other reasons on that depends the orderly function ing of the society as also prestige of the profession to which the deponent has the honour to belong.
have no relevance or relation to the functioning of the learned Judge of the High Court.
Therefore the deponent tenders his apology to this Hon ble Court for the same and prays for its acceptance.
