Civil Appeal No 1744 of 1968.
Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated 14 6 1967 of the Mysore High Court in Writ Petition No 44065.
Mrs Shyamala Pappu and Girish Chandra for the Appellant.
Narayana Nettar for Respondents 4 and 5 3 1338SCI76 828 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BEG J.
The judgment under appeal after certificate of fitness of the case under Article 1331c of the Constitu tion of India is very short as it purports to follow the ratio decidendi of Union of India vs.
GM Shankariah  Ors.
1 where this Court had held upon a concession by the Attorney General that a list prepared under Section 115 of the  hereinafter referred to as the Act  was provisional.
The High Court of Mysore seems to have been under the misapprehension that the case now before us is also governed by what was held by this Court in Shankariah s case supra with reference to an entirely different and provisional list of Forest Officers.
Apparently the petitioner whose date of birth is given as 28th June 1915 has retired.
We have however gone through his petition and the affidavit filed in its support where in paragraph 16 he states as fol lows The Mysore State Civil Service Integra tion Rules 1960 provide for filing objections only against the preliminary provisional Inter State Seniority List and do not provide any provision for filing objections or appeal ing against the final Inter State Seniority List as per Annexure B .
Thus we have no other legal remedies open to us for the re dressal of our grievances and the abridgement of our fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution of India and therefore we are forced to approach this Honble Court to invoke the writ jurisdiction for the redressal.
 It is apparent that the petitioner re spondent was claiming relief against the final Inter State seniority list although he was given due opportunity to object to the provi sional list.
Now Shankariah s case supra was con fined to an admission on behalf of the Central Government that the list before the Court was provisional so that the petitioners before the Court on that occasion were to get opportuni ties of puting forward their objections before the final list is prepared.
Presumably he had that opportunity.
There the list was provisional.
The most that could be urged in the light of decisions of this Court is that a person whose seniority is to be determined under Section 115 of the Act must be given.
an opportunity to object to the proposed assign ment of a place to him in the seniority list.
Hence the principle recognised in Shankariah s case supra was not applicable to such a case.
As the petitioner in the High Court who is the respondent before us was unrepresented Mrs Shymala Pappu appearing on behalf of Union of India very Conscientiously took us through Union of India  Anr.
