Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for a Writ in the nature of Habeas Corpus.
Hemendra Shah J B Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain for the petitioner.
M C Setalvad Attorney General of India C K Daphtary Solicitor General of India B Sen and R H Dhebar with them for the respondent No 1 890 1955 October 14.
The facts which are not in dispute may be shortly stated as follows.
The said Govindji Deoji Halai hereinafter referred to as the assessee is the sole proprietor of a business carried on under the name and style of Indestro Sales and Service Co at No 50 52 Lohar Chawl Street in the City of Bombay.
Two private limited companies namely Indestro India Ltd and Indestro Eastern Ltd also carry on business and have their respective offices in the same premises.
In respect of his own business of Indestro Sales and Service Co the assessee was assessed to income tax for the years 1943 44 to 1947 1948 and 1951 1952 by the Third Income tax Officer C 1 Ward Bombay at and for Rs 40178 4 0.
The assessee not having paid up the assessed amount of tax the Income tax Officer on the 10th April 1951 issued to the  Additional Collector of Bombay the first respondent herein a recovery certificate under section 462 of the Income tax Act.
It may here be mentioned that the Indestro Eastern Ltd was also assessed to income tax at and for Rs 192000 and a recovery certificate was also issued by the Income tax Officer to the Additional Collector of Bombay.
On the 1st February 1954 the Additional Collector issued a notice of demand on the assessee for payment of the assessed amount of tax.
No payment 891 having been made the Additional Collector attached the goodwill and tenancy rights in the said premises by a warrant of attachment issued on the 24th March 1954.
The sale proceeds not being sufficient to satisfy the assessed tax the Additional Collector on the 7th June 1955 issued a notice under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 requiring the assessee to appear before him in person on the 16th June 1955 and show cause why he the assessee should not be apprehended and confined to civil jail in satisfaction of the said certified demand.
On the 8th July 1955 an application was made by the present petitioner to the Bombay High Court under article 226 complaining of the arrest of his father the assessee and praying for a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas corpus for the production and release of the assessee.
On the 7th September 1955 a rule was issued by this Court on that petition subject to the question of its maintainability in view of the dismissal by the 113 892 High Court of the petition under article 226 from which no leave to appeal to this Court had been sought or obtained.
The rule has now come up before us for hearing.
The principal contentions urged by the learned Advocate appearing for the petitioner are as follows namely a that section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act under which the Income tax Officer issued the recovery certificate to the Additional Collector of Bombay is void under article 131 of the Constitution in that the same offends article 221 and 2 article 21 and article 14 of the Constitution b that section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 under which the warrant of arrest was issued by the Additional Collector is void under article 13 1 of the Constitution as the same is repugnant to article 14 of the Constitution.
We proceed to deal with the objections seriatim.
a Section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act which is impugned before us runs as follows 46.
In view of the decision of this Court in the State of Punjab vs Ajaib Singh  Another1 this objection has not been pressed before us and we need say no more about it.
In this case the assessee has been arrested and is being detained in jail in execution of a warrant of arrest issued under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act 1876 for the recovery of the demand certified under section 462 of the Indian Income tax Act.
It is next said that the proviso to the sub section invests the Collector with all the powers a Civil Court has under the Code of Civil Procedure for the purpose of the recovery of the amount due under a decree.
The powers that are thus conferred on the Collector by section 462 are unfettered and unguided and enable the Collector at his will to discriminate between two defaulters who are similarly situated and thereby violate the behests of the equal protection clause of the Constitution.
This argument appears to us to be founded on a misapprehension about the true meaning of section 462.
All that the sub section directs the Collector to do is to proceed to recover the certified amount as if it were an arrear of land revenue that is to say he is to adopt the procedure prescribed by the appropriate law of his State for the recovery of land revenue and that in thus proceeding he is under the proviso to have all the powers a Civil Court has under the Code.
The other way in which the protection of article 14 is invoked is founded on a comparison of the provisions of the different laws adopted by the different States for the recovery of land revenue.
I of 1886 does not insist on imprisonment at all.
