Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Order dated the 19th March 1975 of the Bombay High Court in First Appeal No 524 of 1966 from original decree.
R B Datar for the Appellant.
V N Ganpule and Mrs V D Khanna for the respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD CJ.
On November 6  1962 Hirabai filed special civil suit No 26 of 1963 in the court of the Joint Civil Judge Senior Division Sangli for partition and separate possession of a 724th share in two houses a land two shops avoid movables on the basis that these properties belonged to the joint family consisting of her husband herself and their two sons.
There was therefore no question of a fresh partition.
became indisputably entitled to a share in the joint family properties but following the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Shiramabai Bhimgonda vs Kalgonda1 the learned trial judge limited that share to 124th refusing to add 14th and 124th together.
By a judgment dated March 19 1975 a Division Bench of the High Court dismissed defendant 1 s appeal and allowed the plaintiff s cross objections by holding that the suit properties belonged to the joint family that there was no prior partition and that the plaintiff is entitled to a 724th share.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
On further consideration the learned Judge felt that Shiramabai1 was not fully argued and was incorrectly decided and that on a true view of law the widow s share must be ascertained by adding the share to which she is entitled at a notional partition during her husband s life time and the share which she would get in her husband s interest upon his death.
In the judgment under appeal the High Court has based itself on the judgment in Rangubai Lalji2 endorsing indirectly the view that Shiramabai1 was incorrectly decided.
That section reads thus 6.
When a male Hindu dies after the commencement of this Act having at the time of his death an interest in a Mitakshara coparcenary property his interest in the property 1196366Bom.
LR351.
2 765 shall devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with this Act  Provided that if the deceased had left him surviving a female relative specified in class I of the Schedule or a male relative specified in that class who claims through such a female relative the interest of the deceased in the Mitakshara coparcenary property shall devolve by testamentary or intestate succession as the case may be under this Act and not by survivorship.
Nothing contained in the proviso to this section shall be construed as enabling a person who has separated himself from the coparcenary before the death of the deceased or any of his heirs to claim on intestacy a share in the interest referred to therein.
By the application of the normal rule prescribed by that section Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would therefore devolve according to the proviso by intestate succession under the Act and not by survivorshop.
Testamentary successive is out of question as the deceased had not made a testamentary disposition though under the explanation to section 30 of the Act the interest of a male Hindu in Mitakshara coparcenary property is capable of being disposed of by a will or other testamentary disposition.
The interpretation of that Explanation is the subject matter of acute controversy between the parties.
Before considering the implications of Explanation 1 it is necessary to remember that what section 6 deals with is devolution of the interest which a male Hindu has in a Mitakshare coparcenary property at 766 the time of his death.
1 AIR 1975 Bombay 257.
