 Criminal Appeal No 133 of 1975.
Appeal from the Judgment and order dated 3 2 1978 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Crl.
R Nagarathnam for the Appellant.
P Parmeswara Rao and G N Rao for the Respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY J.
This appeal has been filed under Section 2a of the .
The appellant was acquitted by the learned Additional Sessions judge Chittoor of an offence under Section 302 Indian Penal Code.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
They were married about one and a half years before the occurrence.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
After the ninth day the mother and child according to customary practice were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased s mother.
After about one and a half months the accused asked his mother in law and brother in law to send his wife to his place.
They replied that she had only delivered a child recently and that she would be sent to her husband s house in the fifth month.
On 18th December 1972 according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
After dinner all of them went to sleep.
On waking up they saw the accused sitting by the side of the deceased with a knife in his hand.
They found the deceased bleeding profusely from the left side of her chest.
PW 1 put his foot on the hand in which the accused was holding the knife.
Attracted by the cries raised by the PWs 1 to 3 the neighbourers P Ws 4 5 6 and others came there.
P W 1 affixed his thumb impression on the report exhibit P 1 prepared by P W 9.
They got him examined by a Doctor.
After holding the inquest the dead body was sent for postmortem examination.
below the arm pit 175 cms x 05 cm.
The stab injury had gone through the third intercostal space and through the upper lobe of the left lung in an upward and medial direction.
The upper lobe of the left lung had been cut through and through and had collapsed.
There was no fracture.
On 18th December 1972.
They insulted him.
He commented on the failure of the Police to seize the mat or bedding on which the deceased was sleeping.
He therefore acquitted the accused.
The High Court reversed the finding of acquittal.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
He urged that the knife was not seized by the Police under any seizure Memo nor was the knife sent to any finger print expert.
He urged that at the reasons given by the learned Sessions Judge had not been met by the High Court.
We are unable to find any substance in the submissions made by the learned Counsel for the appellant.
The High Court was also right in holding that the medical evidence supported the prosecution version and not the defence version.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
According to the accused the deceased received the injury when she placed herself between P W 1 and himself.
We do not think that an injury of the nature received by the deceased could have been caused in the manner suggested by the accused.
It is true that the accused did not have any deep motive to kill the deceased.
In Sanwat Singh s case this Court harked 1 Al.
This of course is not a new principle.
