ON Criminal Appeal No 126 of 1955.
M R Parpia J B Dadachanji and section N Andley for the appellant.
M C Setalvad Attorney General for India B Sen and R H Dhebar for the respondent.
April 24.
This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Bombay dismissing an application made to it under article 226 of the Constitution.
These proceedings relate to the validity of an order of detention passed by the Government of Bombay on the 8th June 1955 against the appellant before us who is an Advocate of the High Court of Bombay having a standing of about thirty years.
He was in the Indian Air Force as an emergency Commissioned Officer between 1943 to 1948 and thereafter on extension for another four years until he attained the age of 55.
It appears that he was also interested in journalism and in public affairs.
He was arrested on the 9th June 1955 and is in detention since then under the impugned order which runs as follows 384 No P D A 1555A Political and Services Department Secretariat Bombay 8th June 1955.
Whereas the Government of Bombay is satisfied with respect to the person known as Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay that with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the relations of India with the Portuguese Government and to the Security of India it is necessary to make the following Order Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub clause 1 of clause a of sub section 1 of section 3 of the Act IV of 1950 the Government of Bombay is pleased to direct that Shri Lawrence Joachim Joseph DeSouza of Bombay be detained.
By Order and in the name of the Governor of Bombay.
Under Secretary to the Government of Bombay.
Political and Services Department.
1The order of detention was mala fide.
The grounds of detention are vague.
385 4The claim of State that no particulars of the grounds could be furnished in public interest is unsustainable and in any case mala fide.
The challenge to the validity of the order based on the attack of mala fides and non application of the mind of the detaining authority have been urged before us with great insistence.
This part of the argument raises what ultimately are questions of fact which have been fully considered by the High Court.
It is therefore enough to state in its broad outlines the background which is alleged as follows 1a There was a sudden search by the police on the 24th August 1954 at the appellant s place for alleged possession of illicit liquorwhich in fact was not found.
But under the guise thereof the police seized and carried away a mass of documents papers and printed material of the appellant as also a typewriter belonging to him.
bOn the same day a search was carried out by the police also at his residence at Mahim but nothing was found.
cImmediately following the searches the appellant was taken into illegal police custody and interrogated and physically assaulted and threatened.
The above high handed action of the police by way of search and seizure was the subject matter of challenge by the appellant by means of a writ application in the High Court in which the police officers concerned filed affidavits virtually admitting the appellant s allegations relating to seizure of papers etc.
But on appeal filed by the appellant before the Sessions Judge the conviction was set aside and retrial ordered.
These events happened between February to April 1955.
You are also collecting intelligence about the security arrangements on the border area and you make such intelligence available to the Portu 388 guese authorities.
