This appeal by special leave has been preferred by Tata Consultancy Engineers against an award dated 20th December 1978 of the Industrial Tribunal Maharashtra Bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
Tata Consultant Engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of Tata Sons Limited.
These workmen are members of the Tata Consultant Employees Union.
The Reference was numbered I T No 292 of 1975.
170 The Union filed a statement before the Tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
The dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
House rent allowance was also paid.
Nothing those facts the Tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
It was pointed out that the dearness allowance and house rent allowance granted by the appellant made little impact in neutralising the cost of living.
In proceeding to revise the wage structure the Tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
Wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the Tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but in the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force the extent of their business the financial position for some years the capital invested the precise nature of the business the position regarding reserves dividends declared and future prospects of the company the Tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns.
Nonetheless the Tribunal observed there was every reason to expect that the appellant would be able to earn sound profits in the future and the instability in its business activities occasioned by the turbulent political situation in Iran would be it was expected compensated by contracts secured in different developing countries.
 It also observed that the category of Draughtsmen needed a special increase.
But it rejected the demand of the Union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant s financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
II DriverAsstt.
660 EB 25 785.
Caretaker.
OptrRecep tionistAssist.
Record Keeper Veh.
Assist Administrative AssistPersonnel AssttComm.
70 1690 80 2010.
The Tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
The revised wage scales the Tribunal directed should take effect retrospectively from 1st January 1976.
173 Two days after the award was made an application was made by the Union stating In the said award your Honour has observed at the end of para 22 In view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay I do not propose to revise the existing scheme of Dearness Allowance.
However this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
 The Union prayed that the position may be clarified and the award corrected accordingly.
On the same date the Tribunal disposed of the application by the following order There can be no doubt that a flat increase of Rs 150 to each of the employees in the category of Draftsmen and of Rs 100 to each employee in the other categories has been granted under my award.
The same has been made clear in paragraph No 23 but it appears that the words to each employee after the figure Rs 150  were omitted.
Similarly the same words to each employee after the figure 100 were omitted.
Since the award has been already signed I do not think anything further can be added to this award.
sd K N Wani INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL.
The workmen have filed an appeal by special leave Civil Appeal No 2300 of 1979 in which they have challenged the rejection by the Tribunal of their claim in respect of dearness allowance which they contend should be pegged to the cost of living index and should not be a fixed amount.
The Charter of Demands was presented by the Union in July 1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the State Government made the reference to the Industrial Tribunal in 1975.
The Tribunal has referred to various considerations which prevailed with it in giving retrospectivity to the revised pay scales.
Accordingly the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
What is without jurisdiction will remain so.
