From the Judgment and order dated the 1st July 1981 of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir in LPA No 1 of 1981 and CMP No 454 of 1981.
J Sorabjee K K Venugopal and R P Bhatt for respondent in 2611 A81.
E C Agarwala section P Gupta R Satish VK Pandita and RP Sethi for respondent in 2611 2611 A L N Sinha Attn.
Altaf Ahmad and Irfan Ahmad for respondent No 2.
section Ghosh and A K Nag for the intervener.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BALAKRISHNA ERADI J.
When the hearing of these appeals was concluded on November 11 1982 after elaborate arguments had been addressed by learned counsel appearing on both sides we announced our decision allowing the appeal CANo 2611 of 1981 by passing the following order The appeal is allowed.
No order as to costs of hearing in this Court.
The legal consequence of this order will take effect from November 16 1982.
 We now proceed to state in this judgment the reasons in support of our aforesaid conclusion 579 In July 1966 the appellant Ved Gupta decided to embark upon a venture to construct and operate an air conditioned Cinema in a plot of land which he proposed to take on lease in Gandhi Nagar Jammu in Collaboration with two osher persons namely Todar Mal and Kishan Kumar.
Accordingly on July 22 1966 Ved Gupta purporting to act on behalf of a partnership consisting of himself and the two persons aforementioned as a matter of fact no partnership had been constituted at all by that date applied to the District Magistrate Jammu under section 3 of the Jammu and Kashmir Cinematograph Act 1989 1933 AD herein after referred to as the Act for permission to construct a modern Cinema Hall at the proposed site a detailed description of which was furnished in the plan annexed to the application.
Shri Ved Gupta was informed by the District Magistrate Jammu by his Memo Annexure B that the Government had approved the construction of a Cinema Hall at the proposed site and had granted the requisite permission in his favour as per letter dated September 11 1967 issued by the Secretary to Government General Department.
In the meantime by a deed dated December 7 1966 which was registered on December 24 1966 the plot in question was taken on lease jointly by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar for a period of 40 years on the terms and conditions set out therein.
Clause 15 of the said deed provided that the site for construction of a Cinema which had been obtained on lease by Ved Gupta Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar in their own names shall not be their personal property but shall be the property of the partnership and that the permission which Ved Gupta had obtained from the Government for construction of the Theatre in the said plot shall be treated as the property of the partnership.
 The construction of the Cinema Theatre appears to have been completed by the middle of June 1969.
On June 17 1969 Ved Gupta submitted an application to the District Magistrate Jammu reporting that the construction of the theatre and the installation of the cinema 580 tograph machinery and equipment had all been completed pursuant to the permission granted by the Government and requesting that the requisite licence for running the Cinema Theatre may be issued to him under the Act and the Rules.
Annexure C is a copy of the said application and it shows that it was filed by Ved Gupta in his personal capacity without any mention whatever therein of the partnership.
On July 22 1969 a licence was issued by the District Magistrate to Ved Gupta under Section 3 of the Act to give public exhibition of cinematograph films at the Apsara Theatre situated at Gandhi Nagar Jammu.
Annexure D is a copy of the said licence and it is expressly stated therein that the said licence has been granted to Shri Ved Gupta and that it shall remain in force until March 31 1970 provided that Shri Ved Gupta or any person to whom with the consent of the licensing authority the licence is transferred continues to own or manage the cinematographs used ill the said Apsara Theatre.
A Schedule of conditions imposing various duties and obligations on the licensee is also appended to the said licence.
On March 31 1970 two partners Todar Mal and Sham Kumar retired from the partnership.
The right to operate the Cinema licence shall be the property of this partnership and changes in the constitution shall make no difference in this respect.
 Soon thereafter on December 3 1975 Todar Mall who had retired from the firm and Krishan Kumar who continued to be a partner jointly issued a notice to the District Magistrate Jammu claiming that their names should also be included in the licence issued to Ved Gupta in respect of the Apsara Theatre.
A copy 581 of the said letter was sent by Krishan Kumar to Ved Gupta also.
Notice of the said application was issued by the District Magistrate to Shri Ved Gupta and the District Magistrate conducted an enquiry at which both sides were heard through their advocates.
After considering the arguments advanced before him by the counsel appearing for the contending parties the District Magistrate passed a detailed order dated December 29 1977 rejecting the request of Todar Mal and Krishan Kumar and declaring Shri Ved Gupta to be the sole licensee authorized to run the Apsara Theatre.
Krishan Kumar was made a party respondent in the said petition.
Krishan Kumar was a party respondent in the Special Leave Petition also.
Annexure I Before the said order was passed by the District Magistrate an elaborate hearing appears to have been given by him to Krishan Kumar and Ved Gupta represented by their Advocates.
It is seen from Annexure I that the contentions advanced before the District Magistrate on behalf of Krishan Kumar were that even though the licence had originally been issued in the name of Ved Gupta the right of operation of the licence had become the 582 property of the firm by virtue of clauses 13 and 18 of the partnership deed and since Ved Gupta had been expelled from the partnership and had thereby ceased to be connected with the firm he did not have the possession of the premises and he was not entitled to claim a renewal of the licence.
These contentions were repelled by the District Magistrate who held that the renewal of the licence could not be made in the name of any party other than the original licensee namely Shri Ved Gupta who had been declared to be the sole licensee in respect of the Apsara Theatre by the proceedings of his predecessor dated December 29 1977 which was confirmed in appeal by the State Government and which had acquired finality between the parties by reason of the dismissal of the writ petition and the Special Leave Petition by the High Court and Supreme Court respectively.
In March 1980 the licence for the Theatre was renewed by the District Magistrate in the name of Ved Gupta.
On the date of the institution itself the District Judge Jammu issued an order of temporary injunction restraining defendants 1 to 7 from interfering with the possession and the running of the Theatre Apsara by the plaintiffs.
The two learned Judges comprising the Division Bench however came to divergent conclusions.
In this connection it is relevant to refer to Rule 88v.
