ivil appeal No 2197 From the Judgment and order dated 16470 of Andhra Pradesh High Court in appeal No 431 of 1965.
Dr YS Chitale V G Shanker KL Hathi Ms Sadhana DK Chhaya MK Arora and Mrs H Wahi for the appellant.
352 T section Krishnamoorthi Iyer KR.
Choudhry and KS.
Choudhary for the respondents.
By the said Judgment and decree the High Court of Andhra Pradesh had reversed the Judgment of the learned Subordinate Judge Masulipatam dated 19th November 1964 dismissing the suit of the plaintiffs respondents against the appellant.
Late Shri Raja Vasireddi Chandra Dhara Prashad was the husband of respondent No 1 and father of the respondents No 2 to 5 herein.
He had filled a proposal for insurance for Rs 50000 on 27th December 1960.
The deceased had issued two cheques for Rs 300 and Rs 220 respectively in favour of the appellant as first premium.
Cheque for Rs 300 was encashed by the appellant on 29th December 1960.
As mentioned hereinbefore the deceased died on the day following ie on 12th January 1961.
On 16th January 1961 the widow of the deceased respondent No 1 herein wrote to the appellant intimating the death of the deceased and demanded payment of Rs 50000.
The Divisional Manager Masulipatam Branch denied liability on behalf of the appellant Corporation on 28th January 1961.
Thereafter there was correspondence between the parties between 1st February 1961 to 23rd December 1963 wherein the respondents plaintiffs had claimed the payment and the appellant had denied liability for the same.
353 On the 10th January 1964 the plaintiffs filed the suit in the court of Subordinate Judge Masulipatam.
It was alleged in the plaint after setting out the facts which have been set out hereinbefore that the medical examination report was submitted to the appellant corporation by Dr Sri C Sambasiva Rao Approved Medical practitioner of the appellant in regard to the medical examination of the deceased.
A report described as All the Friend s report was duly sent to the appellant with regard to that proposal and all the preliminaries were completed and it was further alleged that the deceased was assured and told by the local agent and the Field officer of the Corporation that the payment of the first premium would amount to the acceptance of the proposal and advised the deceased to pay the first premium in full.
It was further stated that the said two cheques were encashed and the appellant had duly appropriated the amount and credited in the accounts towards the premium payable by the deceased.
It was further alleged that the appropriation of the amounts by the Corporation towards the first premium by the deceased was only consistent with the acceptance of the proposal.
The case of the plaintiffs further was that in this case the first premium was not only received by the Corporation completely on 11th January 1961 but it was also appropriated by it in its accounts and the said premium amount 354 was received by the Corporation without any demur or qualification and that in any event the Corporation must be deemed to have waived by its conduct the formality if any of sending communication of its acceptance of the proposal.
In the said written statement after setting out the facts it was denied that the payment of the first premium amounted to acceptance of the proposal and the allegation about the assurance given to the deceased as alleged in the plaint was not true nor the alleged assurance if any valid under law.
It was further stated that the two cheques were not encashed and credited towards the premium account of the proposal but these were kept only in deposit in suspense account without any liability of the appellant.
It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
It is not necessary to set out in detail those issues but the important and main issue was whether there was a concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Life Insurance Corporation of India.
B 4 the review slip prepared by the Branch office Guntur and sent to the Divisional officer Masulipatam.
Normally it took some time for the Divisional Manager to accept.
There was no communication from the Divisional office to the Branch officer accepting the proposal.
He further stated that the amount would be transferred into the first premium register after the proposal was accepted and the risk covered.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
In this connection we may refer exhibit B 14 which is the Life Insurance Corporation of India s Proposal Review Slip regarding proposal in the case of the deceased.
The endorsement therein of the assistant Divisional Manager read as follows NOTES AND DECISION  may be accepted at OR WITH EDB Shri Brahmandrao Ramiah had further stated that the papers were scrutinised by him in addition to the scrutiny by the concerned clerks.
He further stated that the letters DM  were also written by him indicating that the papers should go to the Divisional Manager on exhibit B 4.
He reiterated that the order of acceptance would not be communicated to the party if all the formalities were not complied with this policy he stated was not accepted.
When the acceptance was complete and when there was no requirement necessary and if the full first instalment was 356 in deposit it would be adjusted towards premium amount he stated.
In this connection before the learned Trial Judge reliance was placed on the Life Insurance Corporation of India Standing order 1960 Financial Powers.
Chapter III of the Standing order dealt with the powers of the different authorities for inter alia Underwriting and Revivals of Policy .
Underwriting and Revivals a Standard Section Head 2000 Sum Proposed lives and Supdt or JO 5000  do  revival on ASO 10000  do  original ADM 25000  do  terms DM 100000  do  Note Proposals on standard lives for more than Rs 100000 should be referred to the Central Underwriting Section Learned Subordinate Judge by his judgment dated 19th November 1964 held that there was no concluded contract.
The Trial Court therefore held that there was no concluded valid insurance contract between the deceased and the Corporation.
The Trial Court further noted that it was significant that the case set out in the plaint and the basis of the claim made in the notices sent to the Corporation was not that the proposal was as a matter of fact accepted by the Divisional Manager on the other hand claim was that it should be deemed to have been accepted.
SR Appeal allowed.
