etition Nos.
1073 1100 1117 19 1229 95 142 1554 1746 2140 2155 2271 2396 2459.
1198 1217 1302 12 1314 15 1566 1641 1140 70 2360 95 1643 17252272 232921522332233924913486 89 2498 2521 2522 533 742611 2638 and 2531 of 1983.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Writ Petition Nos 42184571 and 5266 5280 of 1983 Under article 32 of the Constitution of India AND Transfer Case Nos 44 339 of 1983 KK Venugopal SS Ray PP Rao VM Tarkuade and R K Garg V Jogayya Sharma MP Rao Sudarsh Menon T VS N Churi G Narasimhulu A Subba Rao MKD Namboodiry HS Guru Raj Rao section Markandeya ATM Sampath DK Garg Nikhil Chandra and A K Panda for the Petitioners.
LN Sinha Attorney General Anil B DivanB Parthasarthi and KR Chaudhary for the Respondents.
GN Rao for the State.
Miss A Subhashini for the Union.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRACHUD C J.
In the elections held to the Legislative Assembly of Andhra Pradesh in January 1983 a new political party called Telugu Desam was swept to power.
It assumed office on January 9 1983.
On February 8 1983 an Order GO Ms No 36 was issued by the Government of Andhra Pradesh stating that it had decided to reduce the age of superannuation of all Government employees other than in the last Grade Service from 58 to 58 years.
By these notifications every Government servant whether ministerial or non ministerial but not belonging to the last Grade Service who had already attained the age of 55 years was to retire from service with effect from February 28 1983.
These writ petitions were filed by the Andhra Pradesh Government employees to challenge the aforesaid order and the notifications on the ground that they violate Articles 14 16 21 and 300A of the Constitution.
A counter affidavit was filed on behalf of the State of Andhra Pradesh by Shri R Parthasarathy Joint Secretary in the Finance Department of the State at the stage of admission of the writ petitions.
after which the age of retirement was increased to 58 in 1979 has no relevance to the present decision of the State to reduce the age of retirement that the fact that the average expectation of life is about 70 years is not a ground for increasing the age of retirement of Government employees that the general trend was for reducing the age of retirement that the Government of Kerala and Karnataka had reduce the age of retirement of their employees to 55 though it was earlier increased from 55 to 58 that in some States in India the age of retirement is 55 and not 58 the present decision was taken by the Government in order to fulfill its commitment that it will take welfare measures in order to improve the lot of the common man and.
The inconvenience alleged by the petitioners in the matter of payment of their pension and other retirement benefits was imaginary since the Government was making extensive arrangements to disburse such benefits expeditiously.
By the counter affidavit the Government of Andhra Pradesh denied that any of the provisions of the Constitution were violated by the impugned decision to reduce the age of retirement.
Another affidavit was filed on behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh after the rule nisi was issued in the writ petitions.
588 The affidavit is sworn by Shri AK Sharma Deputy Secretary to Government of Andhra Pradesh.
Finance and Planning.
The rest of the averments i1 this affidavit are on the same lines as in the affidavit of Shri R Partbasarathy.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
Clause 103 provides that every workman belonging to the Last Grade Service or employed on a monthly rate of pay in any service notified as Inferior shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of 60 years.
By clause 15 All Rules and Regulations made under the proviso to Article 309 or continued under Article 3 l 3 of the Constitution or made under any other law for the time being in force governing the recruitment and conditions of service of the Government employees continue to be in force in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Ordinance.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance provides that no amendment to the Fundamental Rules shall be deemed to be invalid merely by reason of the fact that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules laid down that the said rules shall not be modified or replaced to the disadvantage of any person already in service.
Clause 16 of the Ordinance declares that every amendment made before or after the commencement of the Ordinance to the Fundamental Rules and the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules shall be and shall be always deemed to have applied to all Government employees whether appointed before or after the amendment.
Clause 18 of the Ordinance provides by sub clause i that the proviso to rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules shall be and shall be deemed always to have been omitted.
Rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules is omitted by Clause l 8ii while Rule 231 of the Hyderabad Civil Services Rules is omitted by clause 19 of the Ordinance.
The arguments advanced before us fall under distinct heads learned counsel having shared their burden equitably.
Shri Venugopal challenged the Ordinance on the ground that it is unreasonable.
Shri Tarkunde challenged it on the ground that the superannuation of the employees by reduction of the age of retirement amounts in the circumstances to removal  of the employees within the meaning of Article 311.
The challenge of Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray is based on the ground of a total non application of mind.
Shri RK Garg who appears in a group of three Transferred Cases contends that the Ordinance is bad because it supersedes all industrial adjudications and overrules even settlements arrived at between the management and the employees.
Shri PP Rao contends that the Ordinance is bad because.
Shri P P Rao also challenges the retrospective deletion of the proviso to Rule 2 of the Fundamental Rules as being arbitrary.
Shri Gururaj Rao challenges the Ordinance on the ground that it runs into the teeth of the recommendation which the Andhra Pradesh One Man Pay Revision Commission had made in 1979 in pursuance of which the age of retirement was raised from 55 to 58.
It was suggested by the petitioners though somewhat in passing that the object of the State Government in reducing the age of retirement was to get rid of n senior members of Government service whose loyalty was thought to be not above suspicion.
This is the broad outline of the petitioners  case.
We will presently set out the specific contentions advanced before us but before doing so.
Barring a few services in a few parts of the world as for example the American Supreme Court the terms and conditions of every public service provide for an age of retirement.
A common scheme of general application governing superannuation has therefore to be evolved in the light of experience regarding performance levels of employees the need to provide employment opportunities to the younger sections of society and the need to open up promotional opportunities to employees at the lower levels early in their career.
On the one hand public services cannot be deprived of the benefit of the mature experience of senior employees on the other hand a sense of frustration and stagnation cannot be allowed to generate in the minds of the junior members of the services and the younger sections of the society.
We do not suggest that every question of policy is outside the scope Of judicial review or that necessarily there are no manageable standards for reviewing any and every question of policy.
Were it so this Court would have declined to entertain pricing disputes covering as wide a range as cars to mustard oil.
Where an act is arbitrary it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Article 14l But while resolving the validity of policy issues like the age of retirement it is not proper to put the conflicting claims in a sensitive judicial scale and decide the issue by finding out which way the balance tilts.
As stated in The Supreme Court And The Judicial Function 2 Judicial self restraint is itself one of the factors to be added to the balancing process carrying more or less weight as the circumstances seem to require.
State of Tamil Nadu  2 Edited by Philips B Kurland Oxford and IBH Publisning Co Page 13.
592 lative competence or on the legislative power to pass laws which bear on fundamental rights.
Shri Venugopal who led the argument on behalf of the petitioners contends that the provisions of the Ordinance whereby the age of retirement is reduced from 58 to 55 are arbitrary and irrational and hence violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution for the following reasons a The age of superannuation was increased from 55 to 58 years with effect from October 29 1979 after an elaborate and scientific inquiry by a One Man Pay Commission b The State Government issued the order reducing the age of retirement within one month of the assumption of office by it.
In the very nature of things no scientific investigation could have been made no material gathered and no statistics compiled as regards the number of employees who will retire the number of persons who would get fresh employment and the hardship caused to the superannuated employees by the delay in the payment of retirement benefits to them.
Neither the social nor the economic consequences of so grave a decision could have been or were in fact considered by the Government c The reason given by the Government that promotional opportunities had deteriorated as a result of the increase in the retirement age from 55 to 58 is fanciful and non existent.
The various Pay Commissions have expressed the view that persons who are required to retire at 593 an early age are compelled by necessity to seek other employments.
Even otherwise not more than one per cent of the unemployed educated youths are likely to get employment as a result of the reduction in the age of retirement from 58 to 55.
That is because not more than 18000 vacancies arose on account of the reduction in the age of retirement.
e The careful planning by the employees of their important affairs of life like the construction of a house the marriage of a daughter or the repayment of loans has been suddenly set at naught by the reduction in the age of retirement f Two of the most relevant circumstances bearing upon the fixation of the age of retirement have been ignored by the State Government increase in longevity and the prevailing age of retirement in public sector undertakings and g No consideration was given to the plain and direct con sequence of the reduction in the age of retirement namely that the State exchequer would have to find and pay Rs 70 crores on one single day by way of retirement benefits for which no budgetary provision was made It would appear from these contentions as also from the contions advanced by the other learned counsel that the main plank of the petitioners  case is that the decision to reduce the age of retirement from 58 to 55 is unconstitutional because it is arbitrary irrational and unconnected with the object which it seeks to achieve.
It is contended that the reversal of that well considered decision within a short span of less than three and a half years is patently unscientific and arbitrary 594 especially since no fresh investigation was undertaken to examine the validity of the recommendation made by the One man Pay Commission.
The terms of reference of the Commission were enlarged by the Government by an order dated January 28 1978 SO as to require the Commission to review the existing retirement benefits available to all categories of employees referred to above and to examine the question of extension of retirement benefits to the work charged establishments.
p73 Ordinance which mostly regulate conditions of service.
Clause 101 of the Ordinance prescribes that every Government employee not being a workman and not belonging to Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the are of 55 years.
Clause 102 provides that every Government employee not being a workman but belonging to the Last Grade Service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the of the Commission cover the review of the existing retirement benefits  the reference would naturally include the age of retirement.
 This was an erroneous and unwarranted reading of the terms of reference.
A review of retirement benefits would undoubtedly cover the examination of the rules or schemes relating to pension provident fund gratuity encasement of leave etc but it cannot include the power to examine the question as regards the fixation of the age of retirement.
The Commission says in the same paragraph as a possible justification of its consideration of the question of the age of retirement that it was mentioned on the floor of the House that this issue is referred to the Commission Our attention has been drawn in this behalf to a statement made in the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council on September 20 1976 by the then Finance Minister Shri G Rajaram to the effect that one of the terms of reference to the Commission was to review the existing retirement age of Government employees.
In any case the power of a Commission to enquire into a question must depend 595 upon the terms of the Reference and not upon the statements made on the floor of the House.
The fact that the Commission discussed the question of the age of retirement in passing shows that it was not properly seized of that question.
That question was not within its purview.
As regards Shri Venugopal s argument at b above the fact that the decision to reduce the age of retirement from 58 to 55 was taken by she State Government within one month of the assumption of office by it cannot justify the conclusion that lt the decision is arbitrary because it is unscientific in the sense that it is not backed by due investigation or by compilation of relevant data on the subject.
The reasonableness of a decision in any jurisdiction does not depend upon the time which it takes.
A delayed decision of the executive can also be had as offending against the provisions of the Constitution and it can be no defense to the charge of unconstitutionality that the decision was taken after the lapse of a long time.
Conversely decisions which are taken promptly cannot be assumed to be bad because they are taken promptly.
Every decision has to examined on its own merits in order to determine whether it is arbitrary or unreasonable.
Besides we have to consider the validity of a law regulating the age of retirement.
It is untenable to contend that a law is bad because it is passed immediately on the assumption of office by a new Government.
The aid and assistance of a well trained bureaucracy which notoriously plays an important part not only in the implementation of policies but in their making was also available to the Government.
Therefore the speed with which the decision was taken cannot without more invalidate it on the ground of arbitrariness.
The contentions of Shri Venugopal which arc set out in paragraphs c to g above and partly in paragraph b itself are by and large matters of legislative policy in the formulation of which the Government of the day must be allowed a free though fair play.
If reduction of the retirement age from 58 to 55 is to be regarded as arbitrary on the ground that it overlooks the advance made in longevity fixation of retirement age at 58 is also not likely to sustain the charge of arbitrariness.
Both can fall within the constraints of the Constitution and neither the one nor the other can be considered to be arbitrary or unreasonable.
There is no one fixed or focal point of reasonableness.
That is the area which permits free play in the joints.
Maharashtra 58 years Orissa Previously 55 years enhanced to 58 years.
Neither the American nor the English notions or norms for fixing retirement age can render invalid the basis which is widely accepted in our country as reasonable for that purpose.
Prior to 1917 the superannuation rule applicable to both ministerial and non ministerial staff was that a Government servant who had attained the age of 55 might be required to retire but that in order to avod depriving the State of the valuable experience of efficient officers and adding unnecessarily to the non effective charges the rule should be applied with discretion and whenever it was applied reasons should be recorded.
It was observed that Government service ages employees quicker and that the question was one of balancing limited use to Government of such men against perhaps their better usefulness to the nation at large.
thus notwithstanding the recommendation of the Varadachariar Commission the age of superannuation laid down for the non ministerial staff more than 40 years earlier and for ministerial staff more than 20 years earlier continued to be in force when the Second Central Pay Commission took up that question for examination.
There was an extraordinary unanimity of opinion amongst Heads of Departments distinguished retired public servants public men and economists who gave evidence before the Commission that the age of superannuation should be raised the only difference being as to whether it should be raised to 58 or 60 years.
 The Commission then adverted to the prevailing ages of retirement in foreign countries and reiterated that whether we go by our own vital statistics or by the age of retirement prevalent in other countries there was a clear case for raising the age of superannuation substantially above 55 years.
In paragraph 15 of the Report the Commission considered the effect of increasing the age of retirement on the employment situation and concluded that the likely repercussion of increasing the age of retirement on educated unemployment would not be substantial.
After talking into account all the relevant considerations including the fact that most Government servants themselves do not wish to continue in service until they are worn out and have one foot in the grave the Commission summed up its findings by saying that there was much in favour of and very little against raising the age of superannuation.
The Commission recommended that the age of superannuation should be 58 for all classes of public servants including those for whom the retirement age then was 60.
However.
But such is not the case here.
SR Petitions dismissed.
