Civil Appeals Nos.
1264 6771 etc.
DK Sen Gopal Subramonium and RN Poddar for the Appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by TULZAPURKAR J.
The challenge to the other provisions of the Act at the instance of persons engaged in gold trade ie manufacturers shroffs and dealers in gold was rejected by the High Court.
Section 28 of the Act runs thus 28.
Money lending business not to be carried on in licensed premises No licensed dealer shall unless authorised by the Administrator so to do a carry on business as a money lender or banker on the security of any article or ornament or both b permit any other person to carry on money lending banking or any other business in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
 The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
The High Court s reasoning in this behalf is to be found in its judgment at page 87 of the paper book and it runs thus The Administrator as is evident from this provision is given unlimited authority or power to refuse permission or to grant permission.
A dealer is at the mercy of the Administrator and is help less against the arbitrary exercise of the power by the Administrator when he chooses to negative the request.
It is clear that Section 28 confers an arbitrary and uncanalised power without any criteria for guiding the discretion of the Administrator.
Further the section does not provide nor is any rule brought to our notice which enjoins upon the Administrator to give a hearing to dealer who seeks permission under this Section and give reasons in case he decides to refuse the permission.
276 of the Act as it stood prior to its amendment by the Amending Act No 26 of 1969 constitutionally invalid on the ground of conferal of a very wide and vague power upon the Administrator to grant or renew a license to a dealer.
For the reasons which we shall indicate presently it is impossible to the reasoning given by the High Court for striking down sec.
276 of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
It cannot be disputed that sec.
