4053 to 4056 of 1985.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHINNAPPA REDDY J.
These appeals raise common questions of law and may therefore be disposed of by a common judgment.
By the time the proviso came into force 36 permits had been granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority and 14 remained to be granted.
There were as many as 495 applications for the grant of these 14 permits.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
The decision of this Court in Sher Singh vs Union of India  was distinguished on the ground that in that case the court interpreted the word preference  occurring in section 471 H in the back ground of the provisions of Chapters IV and IV A of the Act under the former of which the State Transport Undertaking would have preference whereas under the latter the State Transport Undertaking would have a monopoly.
The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and some other private operators have filed these appeals by special leave of this Court under article 136 of the Constitution.
Shri Shanti Bhushan learned counsel for the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation Dr Chitley learned counsel for some of the private operators Shri Datar learned counsel for the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation Shri Sampat and Shri Javali learned counsel for other private operators submitted that the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court were wrong in distinguishing the decision of this court in Sher Singh s case and that the true position was that on a correct interpretation of the proviso to sec.
Shri CS Vaidyanathan learned counsel for some of the preferred private operators urged that the view taken by the High Court and the State Transport Appellate Tribunal was correct and that the fourth sub clause of the proviso to section 637 did not offend article 14 of the Constitution.
A motor car is defined in section 216 as any motor vehicle other than a transport vehicle 1013 omni bus road roller tractor motor cycle or invalid carriage.
Section 42 prescribes permits for the use of a transport vehicle in any public place.
Sections 46 47 and 48 deal with the grant of stage carriage permits.
Section 471 prescribes the matters to be taken into consideration in granting stage carriage permits and the first consideration naturally is the interest of the public generally.
Section 471 A enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.
Section 471 C enables the State Government to reserve a certain percentage of stage carriage permits to persons belonging to economically weaker sections of the community.
Section 52 and 53 deal with private carrier s permit and sections 54 55 and 56 deal with public carrier s permit.
Section 57 deals generally with the procedure to be followed in applying for and granting permits.
Section 637 is the provision with whose interpretation and vires we are primarily concerned in this case.
The rule is a rule of preference and not a rule of exclusion.
That is how section 471 H was interpreted in Sher Singh s case.
47 the application of the Undertaking for an inter State route shall be examined as application of any other private operator.
There is no question of eliminating private operators merely because the Undertaking applies for a stage carriage permit under Chapter IV.
637 of the .
