Appeal No 1713NT of 1973.
Respondent in person.
Not present  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SABYASACHI MUKHARJI J.
The questions involved before the Allahabad High Court in the reference under section 271 of the Act were as follows 1 Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal right ly held that the assessee did not make valid gifts aggregating Rs 150000 on 11.
The asses see Dr RS Gupta had maintained an account in the books of Messrs Tika Ram and Sons Pvt.
On 1st January 1957 the account showed a credit of Rs 150740.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee his father for the gift of Rs25000 made to him and Rs50000 gifted to his son.
It must be mentioned however that the company ie Messrs Tika Ram and Sons.
Ltd was stated to be running an oil mill and carrying on business as grain tillers.
contractors and brick kiln owners.
It was also stated to be carrying on business of advancing money and taking money on loan when necessary.
It was his contention that Tika Ram  Sons carried on the business of banking and hence the gifts were valid.
But there was no evidence that Tika Ram and Sons were carrying on any banking business.
The Tribunal held that they were not carrying on banking business.
Section 123 of the said Act deals with how transfers are effected and stipulates inter alia that for the purpose of making a gift of movable property as in this case the transfer must be effected either by a registered instrument signed by the donor and attested or by delivery.
Such delivery may be made in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
No letter as in the previous case was addressed by the assessee but only oral instructions were said to have been given.
The Tribunal held that there was no valid gifts.
The High Court in view of the decision of the Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in the case of Gopal Raj Swarup vs Commissioner of Wealth tax Lucknow answered the first question in the negative and so far as the second question is concerned it declined to answer as it did not arise in view of the answer given to the first question and the questions Nos.
34 and 5 were answered in the negative.
It is possible in certain circumstances for a donor to make a valid gift by instructing a firm or a company or a HUF in which the donor has an account to give effect to the gift by debiting his account and crediting the account in the name of the donee.
The circumstances must be such as to make it clear that there were sufficient funds at the disposal of the donor by reason of which he could make the gift by such book entries.
The assessee must also have sufficient credit balance to enable him to make the gift.
The position however might be different if such firms or companies or HUF in whose accounts gifts are effected have overdraft facilities.
The Tribunal therefore it was found tightly held that the gifts were valid and the interest paid in respect of the accounts standing in the name of the donees was allowable as a deduc tion in the hands of the assessee firm.
held that under section 123 of the  in case of gift of movable property the transfer may be effected by delivery.
The gift was held to be valid.
