Every shining pine needle every sandy shore every mist in the dark woods every clearing and humming insect is holy in the memory and experience of my people.
Our dead never forget this beautiful earth for it is the mother of the Reproduced verbatim from Pariyavaran Vol.
He treats his mother the earth and his brother the sky as things to be bought plundered sold like sheep or bright beads.
The wind that gave our grandfather his first breath also receives the last sigh.
Whatever befalls the earth befalls the sons of the earth.
Whatever befalls the earth befalls the sons of the earth.
This earth is precious to Him and to harm the earth is to heap contempt on its Creater.
The least that the Court may do is to examine whether appropriate consideration are borne in mind and irrelevancies excluded.
When the question involves the nice balancing of relevant considerations the Court may feel justified in resigning itself to acceptance of the decision of the concerned authority.
 It was stated that the Finance and Tourism Department had agreed to the proposal to lease the properties to the ITDC and the Taj Group respectively.
The Secretary Metropolitan Development Department made an endorsement on the letter to the effect that the Minister for Animal Husbandry and Veterinary services had himself visited the site.
The Chief Minister endorsed the following.
In addition there are flower nursery dumping ground and fodder cultivation area.
Two alterna tive financial proposals were set out.
On September 28 1981 the Government of West Bengal officially conveyed its acceptance of the proposal of the Taj Group of Hotels for the construction of a Five Star Hotel.
The terms and conditions of the lease were set out.
Thereafter an expert Committee was consti tuted to supervise the construction Of alternative facili ties.
The writ petition was therefore amended and a prayer for cancellation of the lease deed was added.
The original petitioners are now before us having obtained special leave under article 136 of the Constitution.
We do not agree with the submission of Dr Singhvi.
jobbery or nepotism.
