The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH J.
Prior to January.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers with a few exceptions were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
On the passing of the said Ordinance the management of the controlled business of all the insurers in India thus vested in the Central Government and pending the appointment of the custodians for the controlled business of any insurer the person in charge of the management of such business immedi ately before the passing of the Ordinance was required to be in charge of the management of the business for and on behalf of the Central Government.
The Ordinance contained detailed provisions for the carrying on of the life insur ance business by 189 the Government for the time being.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
The Corporation was accordingly established on 1st September 1956.
It therefore became necessary to transfer the services of the existing employees of the insurers to the Corporation because without the services of those employees it was almost impossible for the Corporation to run the life insur ance business in India which involved management of the various offices situated in different parts of India serv icing of lakhs of insurance policies the administration of the assets taken over from the insurers and several other activities connected with the life insurance business.
In order to meet the above need section 11 of the Act came to be enacted.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
The proviso to that sub section provided that nothing contained in sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act would apply to any such employee who had by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to September 1 1956 intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
The whole time employees of the erstwhile insurers whose services were thus transferred to the Corpo ration are hereinafter referred to as the transferred employees  of the Corporation.
Hence in order to remove all doubts the President of India promulgated an ordinance which was replaced by Act 171957 substituting a new sub section in the place of the original sub section 2 of section II of the Act making it more comprehensive and thus enabling the Central Government to alter suitably all conditions of service of the transferred employees.
The new sub section 2 of section 11 of the Act was further modi fied by Act 36 of 1957.
Thereafter sub section 2 of sec tion 11 of the Act read as follows 2 Where the Central Government is satisfied that for the purpose of securing uniformity in the scales of remuner ation and the other terms and conditions of service applica ble to employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation it is necessary so to do or that in the interest of the Corpora tion and its policy holders a reduction in the remuneration payable or a revision of the other terms and 193 conditions of service applicable to employees or any class of them is called for the Central Government may notwith standing anything contained in sub section 1 or in the  or in any other law for the time being in force or in any award settlement or agree ment for the time being in force alter whether by way of reduction or otherwise the remuneration and the other terms and conditions of service to such extent and in such manner as it thinks fit and if the alteration.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
 Section 491 of the Act conferred powers on the Corpo ration to make with the previous approval of the Central Government regulations not inconsistent with the Act and the rules made thereunder.
Under regulation 21 of the Staff Regulations 1956 provision was made regarding superannuation and retirement of the employ ees of the Corporation.
Pursuant to the power conferred on it under sub section 2 of section 11 of the Act the Central Government issued an order on 161957 called the Life Insurance Corporation of India Alteration of Remuneration and other Terms  Conditions of Service of Employees Order 1957 which came into force retrospectively from 1st September 1956.
Retirement The normal age of retirement shall be 60.
But the Corporation may require any employee who has attained the age of 55 to retire if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
Clause 6 of that order originally read as follows 6.
Leave and retirement In the matter of leave and retire ment Field Officers shall be governed by the same regula tions as are applicable to Class I officers of the Corpora tion.
Leave and retirement In the matter of leave and retire ment Development Officers shall be governed by the Life Insurance Corporation of India Staff Regulations 1960 as amended from time to time.
 It may be noted that the Field Officers referred to in the former clause 6 had been redesignated as the Development Officers before it was substituted by the later clause 6 of the standardisation order.
As regards new recruits it was thought that there was no justification to bring down the retirement age from 60 to 55 all of a sudden nor was it considered necessary to maintain any distinction between officers and staff.
In the light of the above it is suggested that the provisions of the Standardisation Order may be extended to transferred officers and the retirement age may be retained at 58 for persons recruited on or after 1st January 1959.
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
These employees demanded that their age of retirement should also be fixed at 60 years as in the case of Class III and Class IV employ ees belonging to the category of transferred employees.
The relevant part of the settlement arrived at between the parties to the said industrial dispute as regards the age of retirement of class III and class IV emp 199 loyees who entered the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 read as follows 1.
2 An employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been im paired.
All the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV irrespective of the fact whether they were transferred employees or employees appointed after 1st September 1956 were entitled to continue in service till 60 years of age but the employees belonging to Class I and Class II who were appointed to the service of the Corpora tion on or after 1st September 1956 had to retire on the completion of 58 years of age subject to the usual clause relating to premature retirement.
Sub regulation 2 of regulation 19 which affected the employees belonging to Class I and Class II appointed to the service of the Corpo ration on or after 1st September 1956 was substituted by a new sub regulation which was notified on September 3 1966.
This new sub regulation 2 of regulation 19 read as fol lows 2.
An employee belonging to the Class I or Class II ap pointed to the service of the Corporation on or  after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority may at its discretion extend his service for one year at a time upto 60 years of age.
From the said Class III post he was promoted to the Class I post since there was no necessity to pass through a Class II post before entering a Class I post on 8101963 and was appointed as Assistant Branch Manager Admn.
Hence he was not retired on the 30th June 1984 as originally notified and allowed to continue in service.
It was urged on behalf of the Corporation and the Union of India that the transferred employees and the employees who joined the service after 1st September 1956 belonged to two distinct and separate classes which had been treated differently throughout for valid reasons.
Hence the age of retirement should be the same in the case of both such promoters.
AIR 1973 CAL.
