From the Judgment and Order dated 17111980 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Appeal No 251 of 1977.
This appeal by special leave arises from the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay dated 17th of November 1980.
The main question involved in this appeal is whether the appellant was a licensee or a tenant and also incidentally the question whether the Court of Small Causes Bombay had jurisdiction to deal with the eviction petition in this case.
The premises in question belongs to the Bombay City Weavers Cooperative Limited.
On or about 9th of February 1965 a fresh document of that date was executed and it is alleged that the appellant continued by virtue of that agreement.
It is alleged that this agreement was entered into between the parties since the respondent wanted to charge more rent or mesne profits.
The agreement is described as an agreement of leave and licence  entered into between the respondent on the one hand and the appellant on the other wherein the respondent had been described as the licensor and the appellant had been described as the licensee  and the recitals therein recite that the licensor was seized and possessed of and was otherwise well entitled as the monthly tenant of the workshop premises situated at 231 Ripon Road Cooperative Building Bombay being the premises in dispute and whereas the licensee had approached the licensor to allow him to occupy and use the said premises for the purpose of carrying out his business of workshop for a period of five years and whereas the licensor had agreed to allow the licensee to use the premises under the said leave and licence of the licensor for a period of five years from 1st of September 1965 till 31st of August 1970 that agreement was being executed.
it was stated that the licensor gave and granted his leave and licence  to the licensee to use and occupy the said premises for the period of five years.
The licensor was entitled to terminate the agreement earlier notwithstanding the fact that the period of the agreement might not have expired.
It further stipulated that the licensee should deposit a sum of Rs2500 for the due performance of the terms and conditions of the agreement.
It is further stipulated that the licensee would be entitled to keep the keys of the said premises with him and shall be at liberty to work in the said premises for twenty hours subject to restriction of rules and regulations imposed by the Municipal or any other local authority or authorities.
It is further provided that the licensee shall be alone responsible and liable for any breach or contravention of any rule or regulation of the said authorities and he shall indemnify the licensor therefor.
On or about 9th of November 1970 the owner of the premises filed an ejectment proceeding against one Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain and obtained a decree.
There was no error of fact as such on that.
The Bombay Rent Act was amended by Maharashtra Act 17 of 1973.
The licence fee was fixed.
It permitted user only for 20 hours.
