Civil Appeal No 1709 of 1988.
WITH SLP Civil No 6998 of 1988 VC Mahajan Mrs Indu Goswami CV Subba Rao P Parmeshwaran for the Appellant in CA No 1709 of 1988.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by K JAGANNATHA SHETTY J.
The civil appeal by speci al leave and the connected SLP raise an important issue as to the power of the Central Administration Tribun al Tribunal to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded by the competent authority to a Government servant in discipl i nary proceedings.
While Suraj Singh by impersonation was receiving the pay of Ashok Kumar he was recognised by the Cashier since he kn ew him personally.
There then started an enquiry followed by departmental proceedings against three persons includi ng the respondent herein.
The Personnel Officer of the 23 BSL Project was appointed as Inquiry Officer.
The enqui ry was conducted under the Punjab Government Servants Condu ct Rules 1966.
 After a detailed enquiry against the respondent and t wo others the Inquiry Officer found all the three guilty of the charge framed against each of them.
The respondent moved the High Court of Himachal Prade sh under Article 226 challenging the findings of Inquiry off i cer as well as the order of dismissal passed by the comp e tent authority.
The Tribunal upon consideration of the matter agre ed with the findings recorded by the Inquiry Officer that t he respondent was the master mind behind the scheme to defra ud the project.
The Tribunal observed Since the applicant had.
After reaching this conclusion the Tribunal pr o ceeded to examine the adequacy of penalty awarded to t he respondent.
The evidence against him is circumstantial in as much as the pay roll was under his custody and he cou ld have access to the identity cards.
Under these circu m stances the evidence that the applicant was the only mast er mind who sought to defraud the project of the funds cann ot be termed to be direct.
We therefore direct that the punishment of dismissal awarded to the applicant be reduced to that of stopping of his five increments which he had earned for a period of five years in terms of clause iv of Rule 11 of the Central Civil Services Classification Control a nd Appeal Rules 1965.
The Tribunal however h as held that the respondent was guilty of entering the name of Ashok Kumar in the pay roll of May 4969.
It provides power to Parliament to enact law for establishme nt of Administrative Tribunals for adjudication of disput es with regard to service matters.
Sections 5 to 11 deal with t he composition of Tribunals and Benches thereof and terms of office of the Chairman Vice Chairman and other member section Section 14 provides powers and authority to the Centr al Administrative Tribunal.
Section 15 deals with the simil ar power and authority of the State Administrative Tribuna l Section 16 refers to the powers of a Joint Administrati ve Tribunal.
Section 22 states that the Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down in Code of Civil Procedur e 1908 but shall be guided by the principles of natur al justice and subject to other provisions of the Act and of any Rules made thereunder.
Section 27 provides for execution of orders.
This position becomes further clear by secs.
