it case for initiating any procee d ings for contempt against the respondents.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
VA Bobde Shyam Mudaliar VM Tarkunde GL Sangh i AK Sanghi Mrs R Karanjawala Mrs Meenakshi Karanjawa la NM Popli and VJ Francis for the Petitioners.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by OJHA J.
T he exact nature of the prayer made in these miscellaneo us applications shall be indicated after referring to t he relief granted on 2nd February 1981 in Civil Appeal No 4 41 of 1981.
The 75 appellants of Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 fil ed a writ petition in the Allahabad High Court in 1972 asser t ing that they had been appointed as Supervisors Grade A  on various dates in pursuance of a circular dated 6th Novembe r 1962 issued by the Director General of Ordnance Factorie s the relevant portion whereof reads as hereunder Subject NON INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT PROMOTION DGOF has decided that Diploma holders serving as 97 Supervisor A  TechSupervisor B Tech and in equiv a lent grades should be treated as follows i All those Diploma holders who have been appointed as Supervisor B  Tech and in equivalent grades should on completion of one year s satisfactory service in ordnan ce factories be promoted to Supervisor A  Tech and in equi v alent grades ii All those Diploma holders who work satisfactorily as Supervisor A  Tech or in equivalent grades for 2 years in Ordnance Factory should be promoted to Chargeman.
Kindly acknowledge receipt.
The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
It was furth er asserted that in accordance with the said rule the cases of all the appellants were screened by the Promotion Committ ee at the factory level and then at the Central level and th ey not having been found fit were not promoted.
It appears th at the criterion of promotion is seniority cum merit.
T he learned Single Judge however did not go into the merits of the controversy and dismissed the writ petition on t he ground of unexplained laches and also on the ground that a previous petition for similar relief had not been presse d Against the 98 judgment of the learned Single Judge the appellants pr e ferred a special appeal before a Division Bench of th at Court.
The learned Judges who decided the special appeal d id not consider it appropriate to uphold the dismissal of t he writ petition on the technical ground which found favo ur with the learned Single Judge and they went into the meri ts of the respective contentions of the parties.
They howeve r did not find any substance in the submission made on beha lf of the appellants and accordingly dismissed the speci al appeal on 8th February 1977.
It was further poin t ed out that Rule 8 contemplated that appointments by prom o tion were to be made on the basis of a selection list pr e pared for the different grades by duly constituted Depar t mental Promotion Committees laid down in the said ru le whereas Rule 12 provided that no appointment to the posts to which these rules apply shall be made otherwise than as specified therein.
With regard to the circular dated 6 th November 1962 the learned Judges took the view that it w as difficult to read in that circular any intention or delibe r ation on the part of the Director General of Ordnance Fact o ries that as soon as two years were completed by a diplo ma holder in the Grade of Supervisor A  there would be an automatic promotion to the post of Chargeman Il.
Accordi ng to the learned Judges such a view would militate again st Rule 12 of the Rules mentioned above.
It was further he ld that even if it was to be assumed that the Director Gener al of Ordnance Factories automatically promoted some Superv i sors A  immediately on the completion of 2 years of servi ce to the post of Chargeman II without the recommendation aft er screening by the Promotion Committee no right would accr ue in favour of the appellants inasmuch as such promotio ns would be in the teeth of Rule 12 and could not confer a legal right on the appellants to be likewise promoted in breach of Rule 12.
With regard to the plea based on Artic le 16 of the Constitution.
Moreover we do not think any case on t he basis of violation of Article 16 of the Constitution can be found in favour of the appellant petitioners only becau se some 99 supervisors equally placed were promoted against the rul es of service.
No formal foundation has been raised in t he pleadings in the writ petition in support of the grou nd based on Article 16 of the Constitution.
 It is against this judgment that Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 was preferred in this Court.
Since the order dated 2 nd February 1981 passed in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 so to speak constitutes the basis for the writ petitions me n tioned above it is in our opinion expedient to reprodu ce the said order.
It reads Heard counsel.
Our attention has been invited by learned counsel for bo th the sides to the relevant rules which govern promotion to the post of Chargeman Grade II.
It appears that a lar ge number of persons have been promoted to those posts thou gh they have completed only two years of service.
We see no justific a tion for any such differential treatment being given to t he appellants.
If a large number of other persons similar ly situated have been promoted as Chargeman Grade II aft er completing two years of service there is no reason why t he appellants should also not be similarly promoted aft er completing the same period of service.
If the appellants are promote d they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
There will be no order as to costs.
 As already pointed above the petitioners in the writ pet i tions refer 100 red to above have prayed for the same relief which w as granted in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981.
Almost analogous prayer had been made in Miscellaneo us Petition No 9357 of 1983 also namely that the responden ts may be restrained from promoting officers to the next high er posts on the basis of recommendations of certain Departme n tal Promotion Committees without complying with the dire c tions of this Court in its order dated 2nd February 198 1.
The reliefs prayed for in the above two civil miscellaneo us petitions are thus of an interim nature.
They are as hereunder i pass appropriate orders directing the respondents to implement in true letter and spirit the judgment of th is Hon ble Court dated 221981 in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1 98 1 ii issue appropriate directions commanding the responden ts to promote the appellants to the next higher posts of Chargeman Grade I Assistant Foreman and Foreman wi th effect from the date they are entitled to after giving th em the benefit of the directions of this Hon ble Court dat ed 221981 iii issue appropriate directions to the respondents to give all consequential benefits to the appellants includi ng payment of arrears.
 The aforesaid writ petitions came up for hearing befo re a bench of two learned Judges of this Court on 9th Septe m ber 1987.
On the view that the judgment of this Court dat ed 2nd February 1981 in Civil Appeal No 441 of 1981 in t he case of Virendra Kumar and Others vs Union of India  Ors  1981 3 SCC Page 30 may require reconsideration the pet i tions were directed to be placed before a three Judge Ben ch where inter alia the correctness of the judgment could be looked into and the nature of relief available to the pet i tioners on the 101 facts now stated would also be considered.
 It is in view of this order that these matters have been listed before us.
It was also brought to our notice that similar ly placed 125 employees got the benefit of the circular dat ed 6th November 1962 in pursuance of an order passed by t he Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April 1983 in writ pet i tions filed by them.
According to learn ed counsel the Rules did not prescribe the minimum number of years of service as Supervisors A  which would make th em eligible for promotion as Chargeman II and the circul ar dated 6th November 1962 which was in the nature of an executive instruction prescribed 2 years  service as Supe r visor A  to make him eligible for promotion.
Howeve r merely on completion of two years  service a Supervisor  A  could not claim automatic promotion.
It w as further urged that the petitioners of these writ petitio ns were on the basis of the Rules considered for promotion a nd it is not disputed that all of them have in due course be en promoted as Chargeman II and some of them have even be en promoted to higher posts.
He also brought to our notice a subsequent circular dated 20th January 1966 by the Direct or General of Ordnance Factories who had issued.
or in equivalent grades in the matter of promotion.
62 and 4416ANG dt.
29665.
The question of promotion of Diploma holders in MechElec.
or equivalent grades.
Having heard learned counsel for the parties we fi nd substance in the submission made by the learned counsel f or the respondents.
  it was held by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Ramachandra Shankar Deodhar and Ors.
vs Sh.
Since Rule 8 in t he instant case prescribed a procedure for making promotion t he said procedure could not be abrogated by the executi ve instruction dated 6th November 1962.
In the case of Ramchandra Shankar Deodhar  Ors  supra the petitioners and other allocated Tehsildars fr om ex Hyderabad State had under the Notification of the R aj Pramukh dated September 15 1955 all the vacancies in t he posts of Deputy Collector in the ex Hyderabad State avai l able to them for promotion but under subsequent rules of July 30 1959 fifty per cent of the vacancies were to be filled by direct recruitment and only the remaining fif ty per cent were available for promotion and that too on div i sional basis.
In oth er words it resulted in delayed chance of promotion.
It wa s inter alia urged on behalf of the petitioners that t he situation brought about by the rules of July 30 1959 co n stituted variation to their prejudice in the conditions of service applicable to them immediately prior to the reorga n isation of the State and the Rules were consequently i n valid.
While repelling this submission the Constituti on Bench held All that happened as a result of making promotions to t he posts of Deputy Collectors divisionwise and limiting su ch promotions to 50 per cent of the total number of vacanci es in the posts of Deputy Collector was to reduce the chanc es of promotion available to the petitioners.
A rule which merely affects chances of promoti on cannot be regarded as varying a condition of service.
This it was urged affected the ir chances of promotion which were protected under the provi so to Section 115 sub section 7.
 It i s therefore clear that neither the Rules of July 30 195 9 nor the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector divisionwise varies the conditions of service of the petitioners to their disadvantage.
 The same view was reiterated in Mohammad Shujat Ali a nd Ors.
vs Union of India  Ors.
9522 27 of 1983 it has been pointed o ut that employees who had joined much later than 20th Januar y 1966 namely the date of the subsequent circular of t he Director General of Ordnance Factories superseding h is earlier circular dated 6th November 1962 have also g ot benefit under the orders of this Court dated 2nd Februar y 1981 aforesaid as also under the orders of the Madhya Pr a desh High Court dated 4th April 1983 in the writ petiti on filed before that Court.
Petition No 596 of 1978 had disallowed t he relief for the petitioners of that writ petition bei ng treated as Chargeman II on completion of two years  servi ce as Supervisor A  by its order dated 16th April 1979 as is apparent from the said judgment dated 4th April 1983 b ut the subse 106 quent writ petitions which seem to have been filed after t he decision of this Court dated 2nd February 1981 in Civ il Appeal No 441 of 1981 were allowed in view of the aforesa id decision of this Court.
9356 57 of 1983.
In view of.
3812 19 of 1983 with regard to a matter relevant for promotion.
