K Parasaran Attorney General AK Ganguli and P Parmeshwaran for the Respondents.
The appellant is a division of McDowell  Co Ltd It has its factory at inter alia Visakhapatnam.
There the drums had been supplied by the buyer.
The same were allowed by the Collector Appeals.
He held that the appellant had not collected any amount in excess of the amount indicated in the price lists.
Collector.
It was contended that in any event under the Act and the Rules the duty of excise is payable by the manufacturer on the manufactured goods.
The said drums were sup plied by the customers for the purpose of filling the fusel oilStyrene Monomer.
It was contended by Shri Salve appearing on behalf of the appellant that on a correct analysis of section 44d the duty being on the activity of manufacture whatever is necessary to bring the goods into existence alone can be taken into account for duty purposes.
The said decision according to learned Attorney General was concerned with the rentals of certain oxygen gas cylinders supplied by the assessee.
Learned Attorney General also drew attention to the decision of this Court in AK Roy vs Voltas Ltd and also to Atic Industries Ltd vs HH Dave Assistant Collector of Central Excise  at 568 to emphasise the point that percentages of sales do not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
The Asstt.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
Learned Attorney General contended that the decision of Indian Oxygen Ltd s case supra cannot be relied on in view of the facts of this case.
In that case the learned Attorney General contended the only question which arose was whether the rental charges received by the assessee for the gas cylinders lent by it to its customers could be included in the assessable value and whether inter est earned on deposits made by the customers for the securi ty of the cylinders supplied by the assessee could also be included in the assessable value of the excisable goods.
Section 4 of the Act provides for the valuation of excisable goods for purposes of charging of duty of excise.
In this sub clause packing means the wrapper container bobbin pirn spool reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped contained or wound ii does not include the amount of the duty of excise sales tax and other taxes if any payable on such goods and subject t9 such rules as may be made the trade discount such discount not being refundable on any account whatsoever allowed in accordance with the normal practice of 984 the wholesale trade at the time of removal in respect of such goods sold or contracted for sale Explanation.
These were in the storage tanks of the assessee and were as such marketable.
The respondent supplied these gases in cylinders at their factory gate.
On these deposits notional interest  18 pa was calculated.
