etition Civil Nos.
12676 77 of 1985 etc.
408 GA Shah MN Shroff KMM Khan and TU Mehta for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by VENKATARAMIAH CJ.
The petitioners in these petitions have questioned the validity of a notification issued by the Government of Gujarat on June 26 1985 in exercise of its powers conferred by Section 15 of the 67 of 1957 herein after referred to as the Act amending the Gujarat Minor Mineral Rules 1966 hereinafter referred to as the Rules with effect from 1 7 1985 substituting the original rule 21 of the Rules by a new rule which reads as follows 21.
ii no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters who manufacture upto one lakh bricks per year.
iii no royalty shall be charged from Nimbha das of village potters if their annual produc tion is not exceeding two lakhs bricks and they supply at least one lakh bricks to the Rural Housing Board or Panchayats.
409 In order to understand the case of the petitioners it is necessary to set out some other provisions of law governing the case.
The Act was passed in the year 1957 by Parliament to provide for the regulation of mines and development of minerals under the control of the Union and it was made applicable to the whole of India.
Under section 3A of the Act the word minerals  is defined as including all minerals except mineral oils.
Clause e of the said section defines minor minerals  as building stones gravel ordinary clay ordinary sand other than sand used for prescribed purposes and any other mineral which the Central Government may.
It is not disputed that Black Trap and Hard Murrum are notified as minor minerals.
It empowers the Central Government to enhance or reduce the rate of royalty prescribed by the Second Schedule in respect of any mineral subject to the condition that the Central Government shall not enhance the rate of royalty in respect of any mineral more than once during any period of three years.
Section 14 of the Act provides that sections 5 to 13 inclusive shall not apply to quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in respect of minor minerals.
Section 15 as it stood during the relevant time read thus 15.
1 The State Government may by notifi cation in the Official Gazette make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected therewith.
2 Until rules are made under sub section 1 my rules made by a State Government regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals which are in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall continue in force.
 It is seen from section 15 that the State Government is empowered to make rules for regulating the grant of quarry leases mining leases or other mineral concessions in re spect of minor minerals and for purposes connected there with.
In exercise of the said power under section 15 the Government of Gujarat promulgated the Gujarat Minor Minerals Rules 1966 which are referred to as the Rules as stated above.
The original rule 21 was substituted by new rule 21 by the issue of impugned notification on 26 6 1985 which provides that a holder of a quarry lease or any other mineral conces sion granted under the Rules shall pay royalty in respect of minor minerals provided in column 2 of the Schedule removed or consumed by him or by his agent manager employee contractor or sub lessee from the leased area at the rates specified in column 3 of the said Schedule.
vs State of Gujarat and Ors.
That decision was rendered on March 5 1986.
During the pendency of the said petitions in the High Court the impugned notification was issued increasing the royalty payable in respect of Black Trap and Hard Murrum from Rs4 to Rs7.
Since many of the contentions raised by the parties in respect of the constitutionality of section 15 of the Act and the validity of Rules made thereunder had been considered and the contentions urged by the petitioners against the said rule in those petitions had been rejected in the present case the petitioners have confined their case only to the following points which according to them had not been considered in the said decision.
Shri RF Nariman learned counsel for the petitioners in some of the petitions had two contentions 1 that the royalty levied and covered under the Rules should be applied only for mineral development and since the said royalty is being treated as part of the consolidated fund of the State and used for other purposes by the State the levy was bad and 2.
