 Criminal Appeal No 8 18 of 1979.
A No 4 of 1977.
AS Nambiar and KR Nambiar for the Appellant.
V Krishnamurthy for the Respondent.
This appeal is directed against the judgment dated 27101979 of the High Court of Madras con firming the conviction of the appellant under section 161 I PC and under section 336 52 read with section 51d of the Prevention of Corrup tion Act.
The brief facts of the case are as under.
The appellant Sunderamoorthy was an Accountant cum Headclerk in the Tamil Nadu Forest Training School at Vaigai Dam.
He took charge of the office on 6101975 and had been residing in a house opposite the training school.
The prosecution case is that the accused thereafter sent for PW 1 informed him that he would help him in restoring the licence and demanded a bribe of Rs 100.
On 21101975 the appellant is stated to have pressed the demand to PW 1.
The latter made a complaint to PW 6 who thereupon arranged a trap.
As instructed PW 1 was ready with ten rupees currency notes.
PW 6 after drawing up a mahazar in the presence of PW 2 Jaganathan Assistant of the Office of the Special Tehsildar Usilampatti directed PW 1 to give the notes to the appellant.
PW 1 handed over the money to the appellant who received the same.
When PW 1 emerged PW 6 along with PW 2 confronted the appellant.
The test was positive the currency notes were seized and the appellant arrested.
At the trial the prosecution witnesses supported the case.
PW 1 affirmed the fact that the appellant made the demand and had also received the amount on 2210.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant was not challenged.
The plea of the appellant was that PW 1 had returned the amount due to him and there had been no demand for a bribe as there had been no occasion for doing so.
It took the view that the evidence of PW 1 find corroboration in the testimony of PW 2 and 6 and the contemporary records.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 41 of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
The appellant has reiterated the contentions before us.
The case of Dipawali gift or return of a loan given to PW 1 has not been even suggested.
It is accordingly dismissed.
