ivil Appeal No 1514 of 1979.
TS Krishnamurthy lyer MJ Paul and Kailash Vasudev for the Appellant.
On 20765 the LIC moved two applications being HRC Nos 3310 and 3311 of 1965 in the court of the Rent Con troller Sri A Varadarajan who later became a Judge of the this Court for fixation of a fair rent for each of the premises.
The defendants GG and his sons filed their objections to the above applications.
So far as item 2 was concerned it appears that at the time of the hearing it was conceded before the Rent Controller that the respondents were tenants of the entire properties covered by the lease deed and that they had not constructed any of the premises thereupon.
In the circumstances the Court of Small Causes in the appeals now being referred to HRA.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20111968.
The tenants filed an appeal being OSA No 62 of 1973.
P 1  P 2.
In view of this finding it was held that the Rent Controller had no jurisdiction to entertain the application for fixation of fair rent in respect of the property which was only a vacant piece of land.
The first is that if either question is answered in the negative the other will not arise for consideration and the appeal will have to be allowed.
In our view the conclusion of the learned Single Judge that the lease exhibit P 1 executed by the co owners of the property in favour of one of them was invalid was erroneous.
S5 of the  clearly envisages transfers of property by a person to one or more living persons or to himself or to himself and one or more other living persons.
The respondents denied that the LIC was the landlord or they the tenants in respect of the property.
Thereafter the tenant filed a suit for a declaration that the order of the Rent Controller was ultra vires in that no notice to quit had been given as required by law.
The Division Bench observed   .
In a suit by a landlord against his tenant for eviction the determination of the tenancy is merely one of the constituents of the cause of action that the landlord has to prove against his tenant in order to succeed in the suit.
413 556 a writ petition was filed to challenge the validity of an order passed by the Rent Controller on the ground that the circumstances for the invocation of section 13b of the Bombay Rent Hotel Rates and Lodging House Rates Control Act 1944 had not been fulfilled.
It was sought to be argued on behalf of the petitioners that the respondent had no jurisdiction to determine the question as to whether the premises were at one time let out as a whole and then let out in parts as was sought to be contended by the applicants  .
 Shri Iyer submits that the appellants  case here is on a stronger footing than in the two decisions cited above because here in the earlier proceedings before the Rent controller and the Court of Small Causes a specific point had been taken that the tenant was only a tenant of the land and not of the premises which belonged to him and that this contention had been specifically over ruled by the appellate court after a consideration of the relevant mate rial.
In that petition the tenant disputed the title of the Corporation in respect of the buildings.
We do not think mat these contentions have any force.
vs Musunuru Venkayya and Ors.
Y Lal Appeal dismissed.
