1981 of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in LPA No 128of 1981.
1.
Counsel state that the facts in all these appeals are identical and that the only facts neces sary or atleast on record before us on the basis of which the issue us is to be decided are these Each of the appellants petitioners hereinafter referred to compendi ously as assessees  is a registered dealer in the State of Haryana.
On these facts it is claimed the assessee is not liable to pay the purchase tax on the raw materials imposed under section 91 of the Act.
The Act is a much amended one and Some of its provi sions have been recently amended with retrospective effect from 27th May 1971 a point of time when actually a prede cessor Act the Punjab General Sales Tax Act 1948 had been in force.
Section 2e a Originally section 2e defined export  to mean the taking out of goods from the State to any place outside it otherwise than by way of sale in the course of inter State trade or commerce.
Section 2p a section 2p defined the expression turnover  as includ ing the aggregate of the amounts of the sales and purchases   made by any dealer in any capacity during a given period.
1983 which reads 6 The purchase of barley or of goods used in the manufac ture of guar gum scientific goods utensils and metal handicrafts shall not form part of the turnover of a dealer for the period he is entitled to purchase the goods on the authority of his certificate of registration without payment of sales tax under section 24 provided these are used exclusively for the specified purposes.
Incidence of taxation 1 Subject to other provisions of this Act every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum Defined in section 7 shall be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of this Act.
Provided that this section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Goods on which no tax is leviable section 6 read with section 15.
2 Every dealer to whom sub section 1 does not apply shall subject to other provisions of this Act be liable to pay tax under this Act on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Provided further that  .
1971 section 6 Incidence of taxation 1 Every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the coming into force of the provisions of this section exceeded the taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected after the coming into force of the provi sions of this section.
349 Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B 2 Every dealer to whom sub section 1 does not apply shall be liable to pay tax on all sales and purchases effected on the expiry of thirty days after the date on which his gross turnover during any year first exceeds the taxable quantum.
Provided that this sub section shall not apply to a dealer who deals exclusively in goods specified in Schedule B Provided further that  .
XXX XXX XXX The earlier Explanation however is omitted with the same retrospective effect.
Section 9 a section 91 has undergone several amendments by Act 44 of of of of of 1986 and Act 1 of of 1990 has also an impact as we shall indicate later.
The second amendment which is crucial for the purposes of this case is the addition at the end of sub clause ii of clause a above the words within the meaning of sub section 1 of section 5 of the .
 These amendments were effective from 141976.
The exclusion of milk was decided to be dropped and so all that this amendment did was to roll both clauses b and bb into one clause reading thus 4.
The first was to change the marginal heading of the section to read thus 91 Liability to pay tax on purchase value of goods.
355 c Act 11 of 1984 changed the marginal heading of the section as Rights and liabilities of registered dealers.
