ivil Misc.
AND IA No 1 of 1989 in SLP No 12288 of 1984.
The following Order of the Court was delivered 540 The special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution is directed against the affirming judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in a suit for title and injunction.
In view of the fact that a petition of compromise in respect of the entire subject matter of litigation has been filed in this Court it is unnecessary to refer to the facts leading to the litigation.
We shall therefore confine the discussion to matters pertinent to the compromise.
Seshiah married two wives.
In February 1985 during the pendency of the special leave petition the adoptive mother died.
While each of the parties had taken such stand in the litigation a compromise was brought about on 2181987 between the father and his two sons and the same was filed in this Court.
When the matter was listed before the Court for recording of the compromise Sudarshan Gupta second respondent herein maintained that he had not been paid Rs1 lakh as stipulated and he had no intention to accept the compromise.
The question as to recording of the compromise was taken up by the Court and parties have been heard.
One of the stipulation in the compromise deed which has admittedly been signed by the father and his two sons stipulates The petitioner has given to the second and third respondents the two sons an amount of Rs 1 lakh each and the second and third respondents have received the same In the face of such a statement in the compromise deed signed by the parties the second respondent had disputed the fact of payment and has in the meantime alienated about 81 acres of property which constitutes the subject matter of dispute to third parties.
The alienations are for about a purported consideration of Rs 4 lakhs.
The sale deeds indicate that a sum of Rs 1 lakh had been received earlier and a net amount of Rs77124 out of the consideration money under these documents has been paid before the registering authority.
The alienees have admittedly been in possession of the property from the date of the sales which is more than three years  old by now.
Admittedly the transfers are pendente lite.
The alienees have made an attempt to hold out that there were agreements for sale prior to the compromise for which there is no acceptable evidence.
We think we have to find that the alienees had no interest in the property prior to the compromise and we must hold that the sale deeds are subsequent to 2181987.
Mr Ram Kumar who appeared for the second respondent apart from maintaining that his client has not received the sum of Rs1 lakh has not been able to point out any justification as to why the compromise should not be acted upon and on the basis of it the litigation may not be disposed of.
He sought to rely on certain decisions which on being referred to were found to be totally inapplicable to the facts of the case.
We direct that the compromise petition shall be accepted and in terms thereof the suit shall be disposed of and the terms of the compromise shall form part of the order to be drawn up in this Court for disposing of the special leave petition.
With a view to settling all equities between the parties and with the consent of Seshiah who is present in Court and counsel for the sons and after hearing the Advocate for the alienees we make the following directions 1.
This amount shall be deposited in the Registry of this Court within the time indicated and Sudarshan Gupta shall be free to withdraw the amount.
The alienees have no right created under the alleged sale deeds.
Under orders of this Court security has been furnished for mesne profits.
543 4.
There would be no order for costs.
