ivil Appeals Nos 259 and 260 of 1958.
Appeals by special leave from the judgment and orders dated August 5 1955 of the former Travancore Cochin High Court in Income tax Reference Appeals Nos 6 of 1953 and 21 of 1954.
KN Rajagopala Sastri R H Dhebar and D Gupta for the appellant.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by KAPUR J.
The main argument has been confined to the question of applicability of section 321 and the first proviso to that section of the Travancore Income tax Act hereinafter called the Travancore Act.
At the instance of the Commissioner of Income tax the following question was referred to the High Court of Travancore Cochin Is the aforesaid sum of Rs 79275 a loss of the assessee arising outside the Travancore State for purpose of the first proviso to section 321 of the Travancore Income tax Act   This question was slightly modified by the High Court 260 which after referring to several decided cases answered the question in favour of the assessee.
In C A 26058 the assessee is a private limited company with its registered office in the former Cochin State.
It was carrying on business at its head office in Cochin State and it also carried on business in Travancore State.
The assessment was made under the Travancore Act and relates to the previous year ending June 30 1949 the assessment year being 1950 51.
This was not allowed by the Income tax Officer and on appeal this order was confirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.
The Commissioner has come up in appeal pursuant to special leave against both these judgments.
It may be stated that the relevant sections of the Travancore Act which govern the two appeals are identically worded with those of the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 to be called the Indian Act.
The question for decision is as to how this proviso is to be construed.
But it has been held that a section framed as a proviso to a preceding section may sometimes contain matter which is in substance a fresh enactment adding and not merely qualifying that which goes before.
Rhondda Urban Council vs Taff Vale Railway 2.
It was argued on behalf of the Revenue that this 1  37.
In 1939 the idea of total world income  was introduced and the definition of total income  was modified by the Indian Income tax Amendment Act VII of 1939 which also made consequential changes in other sections of the Indian Act.
Under section 215 of the Act total income  was defined to mean the total amount of income profits and gains computed in the manner laid down in that Act.
Under section 4 the total income of any previous year of any person who was resident included all income profits and gains from whatever source derived but i it must accrue or arise to him during the year in British India or ii accrue or arise to him without British India during such year.
In the Indian Act they were set out in section 6 as follows section 6  Save as otherwise provided by this Act the following heads of income profits and gains shall be chargeable to income tax in the manner hereinafter appearing namely iv Profits and gains of business profession or vocation.
Then followed sections 7 to 12B laying down the method of computation of the income arising from each head.
