 Civil Appeals Nos 188 to 190 of 1958.
A V Viswanatha Sastri V Vedantachari and K Sundararajan for the appellant.
August 14.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by DAs C J.
These appeals have been filed with certificates granted by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh .
The circumstances under which the three writ petitions came to be filed by the appellant may now be narrated.
It is alleged that on January 10 1942 an agreement was entered into between the Rajah of Venkatagiri and one Sri Balumuri Nageswara Rao whereby the Rajah agreed to give annual leases in respect of certain slate quarries within his estate for five years in succession commencing from February 1942 if the Rajah was satisfied with the work carried on by the lessee during the preceding year.
It was 551 further stipulated that if the leases were given continuously for five years then the lessee would be entitled at the end of the fifth year to obtain a lease from the Rajah for a period of 20 years commencing from the termination of the fifth year.
On the expiry of the fifth year however the Rajah granted another lease to the said Balumuri Nageswara Rao for a short period commencing from February 1 1947 and ending on November 30 1947.
On December 10 1947 the said Balumuri Negeswara Rao is said to have assigned his right title and interest under the said agreement dated January 10 1942 to the appelent of the sons of the Rajah.
The writ petition having come up for hearing before 555 Umamaheswaram J the learned Judge on July 18 1955 made an order directing the Government to hold an enquiry under section 20 of the Abolition Act and decide whether the lease had been granted prior or subsequent to July 1 1945.
The order required the Government to hold the enquiry and pass the appropriate orders within three months from the date of that order.
Thereupon the Board of Revenue passed an order on December 27 1955 declaring that the lease to the appellant had been granted subsequent to July 1 1945 and that as the lease was for a period exceeding one year it was not enforceable against the Government according to the second proviso to section 20 1 of the Abolition Act.
On that finding the Board of Revenue declined to ratify the lease and terminated it under the powers delegated to it under the Rules framed under the Abolition Act.
The appellant promptly filed writ petition No 1 of 1956 praying for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the State of Andhra Pradesh to forbear from terminating his leasehold right in the slate quarries.
Any order passed by the Board of Revenue under this rule shall be subject to revision by the Government.
