the appellant is a trust which wanted to establish a self financing engineering college and submitted an application during 1994 95 to the university of kerala as well as to all india council for technical education hereinafter called the aicte.
there was an inspection by a team of professors of the university and it recommended favourably when it stated that the facilities provided by the appellant would be sufficient for establish ing an engineering college.
the aicte sent a communication on 30 4 1995 stating that on the basis of the observations made by the expert committee and the recommendations made by the central regional committee state level committee and central task force as per the provisions of the aicte regulation dated 30 1 1994the aicte was granting conditional approval for establishing an engineering and technical college.
the abovesaid approval was subject to the fulfilment of specific conditions mentioned in annexure i and the general conditions mentioned in annexure ii to the said letter.
in the event of contravention of the conditions guidelines norms and regula tions of the aicte the aicte could withdraw the approval at any time.
under the impression that the state govt was to grant permission the appellant requested the state government by letter dated 24 6 1995 for permission to start the college.
the appellant sent a reminder to the government on 26 8 1995 for permission for starting the college for the academic year 1995 96 and ultimately the government refused permission by informing the appellant by a letter dated 16 8 1996 as follows.
thereafter the appellant filed writ petition o p no 4612 of 1996 for quashing the said order and for a direction to sanction and establish an engineering college.
the direction to pass a fresh order of affiliation was issued in view of the fact that the university contended before the learned single judge that unless the government granted approval permanent affiliation could not be granted.
against the said judgment of the learned single judge the commis sioner and secretary of the government higher education department filed writ appeal no 1024 of 1997 the division bench of the high court allowed the appeal and set aside the order of the government and dismissed the writ petition.
the division bench however observed that the appellant was at liberty to make a fresh application to the government of kerala for according sanction for setting up the engineering college or to request the government to consider the earlier application for a future academic year.
learned senior counsel for the appellant.
the aicte had consulted the state of kerala as well as the mahatama gandhi university.
according to the learned senior counsel it was indeed not necessary for the appellant to have applied to the state government for any further sanction to establish the college.
it might be that under the relevant statutes of the university the university was required to obtain the views of the state government but that did not amount to requiring any approval of the state government and indeed if any such statute required the approval of the state government it would be void in view of what was stated by this court in state of tamil nadu.
another v adhiyaman educational research institute.
sri t l viswanatha iyer also contended that though the state government stated in its counter affidavit filed in the high court that the policy of the government was not to grant approval to self financing engineering colleges to be established such a policy could not come in the way of the appellant in view of what this court has stated in similar circumstances in thirumuruga kirupan variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858.
also there were four engineering colleges at kannur trichur kottayam and thiruvananthapuram districts and three private aided engineering colleges at palakkad ernakulam kothamangalam and kollam districts.
even though the appellant trust was not seeking aid from the government and even assuming that it was financially self sufficient it would not be in the interests of the students employment to permit new engineering colleges to be established.
thus the government policy was not to grant fresh approvals.
if more approvals were granted it might lead to commercialisation of education.
whether in view of the judgment of this court in state of tamil nadu another v adhiyaman educational research institute others1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631the provisions of the aicte act1987 occupied the field and it was not necessary to obtain the further approval of the government or other authority.
whether any statute in the state of kerala if it required such approval would be void.
2 whether the orders of rejection passed by the state government were valid on merits and whether the university should have granted further orders to continue the affiliation solely on the basis of the aicte permission.
but in the context of s 10k regarding approval for starting a technical institution certain aspects of the judgment need to be highlighted.
before we refer to the abovesaid judgment it will be necessary to refer to certain provisions of the aicte act and the relevant regulations.
for the purposes of performing its functions under the act the council may a undertake survey in various fields of technical education collect data on all related matters and make forecast of the needed growth and development in technical education b coordinate the development of technical education in the country at all levels c allocate and disburse out of the fund of the council such grants on such terms and conditions as it may think fit to i technical institutions and ii universities imparting technical education in coordination with the commission d promote innovations research and development in established and new technologies generation adoption and adaptation of new technologies to meet developmental requirements and for overall improve ment of educational processes e formulate schemes for promoting technical education for women handicapped and weaker sections of the society f promote an effective link between technical education system and other relevant systems including research and development organisations industry and the community g evolve suitable performance appraisal systems for technical institutions and universities imparting technical education incorpo rating norms and mechanisms for enforcing accountability h formulate schemes for the initial and in service training of teachers and identify institutions or centres and set up new centres for offering staff development programmes including continuing education of teachers i lay down norms and standards for courses curricula physical and instructional facilities staff pattern staff qualifications quality instructions assessment and examinations j fix norms and guidelines for charging tuition and other fees.
d no approved intake capacity of seats shall be increased or varied except with the approval of the council.
i the state government concerned ii the affiliating university state board of technical education iii bureaus mpcd iv bureau bos v bureau ra vi the regional office.
as stated earlier the above provisions of the aicte act came up for consideration in state of tamil nadu v adhiyaman educational research institute1995 4 scc 104 1995 indlaw sc 1631.
at that time in 1984the aicte act was not on the statute book.
88 later on these permissions were withdrawn by the state after issuing show cause on 16 7 89 so did the university on 26 7 89 but by that date the aicte act1987 had come into force.
after the constitutional amendment 42 amendment act1976 entry 25 of list iii in the concurrent list.
hence on the subjects covered by the statute the state could not make a law under entry 25 of list iii after the forty second amendment.
if there was any such existing law immediately before the commencement of the constitution within the meaning of art 372 of the constitution as the madras university act 1923 on the enactment of the present central act the provisions of the said law if repugnant to the provisions of the central act would stand impliedly repealed to the extent of repugnancy.
granting approval for starting new technical institution.
inspection of technical institution which are matters covered by the central act.
all that was necessary was that under the regulations the aicte council had to consult them.
statutory powers of the state of kerala and the m g university.
the question is as to how far the judgment in the tamil nadu case is to be applied in the state of kerala.
in case affiliation is granted the fact shall be reported to the senate at its next meet ing.
as held in the tamil nadu case the central act of 1987 and in particular s 10k occupied the field relating the grant of approvals for establishing technical institutions and the provisions of the central act alone were to be complied with.
that could not be characterised as requiring the approval of the state government.
if indeed the university statute could be so inter preted such a provision requiring approval of the state government would be repugnant to the provisions of s 10k of the aicte act1987 and would again be void.
as pointed out in the tamil nadu case there were enough provisions in the central act for consultation by the council of the aicte with various agencies including the state governments and the universities concerned.
the state level committee and the central regional committees contained various experts and state representatives.
in case of difference of opinion as between the various consultees the aicte would have to go by the views of the central task force.
thus we hold in the present case that there was no statutory require ment for obtaining the approval of the state government and even if there was one it would have been repugnant to the aicte act.
factual position and pleadings in this case.
state government was directed by the aicte to announce admission in accordance with regulation notified on 20 5 94 and based on the judgment of the supreme court in unnikrishnan v state of andhra pradesh1993 1 scc.
as already stated in view of the judgment of this court in tamil nadu case it is obvious that there is no need to approach the state of kerala for its approval for starting the engineering colleges.
even on merits the reasons given by the state government in its counter are not tenable in law.
in case there was difference between the state government university or the regional committee the central task force was to make a final recommen dation under regulation.
in thirwnuruga kirupan and variyar thavathiru sundara swamigal medical education charitable trust v state of tamil nadu others1996 3 scc 15 1996 indlaw sc 858which was a case relating to medical education and which also related to the effect of a central law upon a law made by the state under entry 25 list iii it was held that the essentiality certificate can not be withheld by the state government on any policy consideration because the policy in the matter of establishment of a new medical college now vests with the central government alone.
admittedly the university s inspection report was in favour of the appellant.
for the aforesaid reasons we set aside the judgment of the division bench of the high court and uphold the reasoning of the learned single judge in his judgment in op 461296 dated 14 1 1997 we hold that the approval of the aicte was sufficient we do not also think that it was necessary for the learned single judge to direct the state government to reconsider its decision.
the petitioner was not a party in the high court of kerala and this special leave petition was filed with leave of this court.
