aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
under show cause notices it was alleged that the appellants herein assessee have sold the biscuits under the brand name meghrajwhich was a registered trade mark of kay aar biscuits p ltd who was using the said trade mark on manufacture of biscuits themselves and therefore the appellants were not eligible to the benefit of ssi notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 1993 as amended by notification no 5994 ce dated 1 3 1994.
the above show cause notices were issued by the department demanding differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992 the said demand was based on an agreement detected by the department.
that agreement was between madan verma director of a company known as m s.
ltd ghaziabad and m s rich food products p ltd noida.
party no 1 under the agreement.
it was declared that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
ltd to use its trade mark for the manufacture of wafers alone.
at this stage it may be noted that the appellants herein claim to have started manufacture of biscuits in 1991 the biscuits were sold in wrapper mentioning the name of the appellantsm s.
the assistant commissioner ghaziabad examined the printed wrappers.
he came to the conclusion vide his orders that the trade name meghraj was in the form of a logo printed on the wrapper of the biscuits and therefore the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 as amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 consequently the adjudicating authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992.
aggrieved by the decision of the adjudicating authority the assessee preferred appeals to the commissioner a the said appeals were rejected on the ground that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj of another manufacturer m s kay aar biscuits p ltd on their products biscuits and therefore they were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
it was held that the word meghraj was printed on all the printed wrappers and therefore it was wrong to say that the appellants were not using the brand name meghraj on its products.
in this connection reliance was placed by the commissioner a on the said agreement dated 22 11 89 before the commissioner a the appellants herein contended that they had used the name m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd on the wrapper and not on the product.
and therefore they were entitled to exemption.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
before the commissioner ait was argued in the alternative that the logo belonged to m s.
accordingly the commissioner a dismissed the appeals.
the orders of the commissioner a have been confirmed by order dated 11 4 2000 passed by cegat.
by order dated 8 12 2000cegat rejected the above rectification application made by the appellants.
the object of the notification therefore was to help the ssi units and thereby increased industrial production.
explanation ix brand name or trade name shall mean a brand name or trade name whether registered or not that is to say a name or a mark such as symbol monogram label signature or invented word or writing which is used in relation to such specified goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between such specified goods and some person using such name or mark with or without any indication of the identity of that person.
on behalf of the appellants it has been vehemently argued that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was never the registered owner of the trade mark meghraj.
in the case of pahwa chemicals pvt.
commissioner of central excise delhi 2005 189.
elt 257 2005 indlaw sc 799sc.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
in the case of commissioner of central excise chandigarh v bhalla enterprises 2004.
elt 225 2004 indlaw sc 996scthis court held that the assessee will not be entitled to the benefit of exemption if it uses on goods in question same similar brand name with intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person or uses the name in such manner that it would indicate such connection.
applying the above test to the facts of the present case madan verma is a common director in the two companies.
he has filed an affidavit enclosing the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000.
before us it has been urged that m s ltd is non functional since 1 3 93 and therefore in any event appellants were entitled to use the trade mark meghraj.
discontinuation of business in respect of a product does not necessarily amount to abandonment.
in the circumstances the department was right in rejecting the above contention.
abandonment of the trade mark has to be proved by the appellants in the present case.
u s 28 of the trade marks act1999registration gives to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the trade marks act.
it is correct to say that the registrar trade marks can issue registration certificate u s 28 of the trade marks act with retrospective effect.
this question has been decided by the bombay high court in the case of sunder parmanand lalwani and others v caltex india ltd air 1969 bombay 24 1965 indlaw mum 1419 in which it has been held vide paras 32 and 38 as follows a proprietary right in a mark can be obtained in a number of ways.
before the deputy registrar and before mr justice shah proprietorship was claimed on the basis that the applicant was entitled to it as an importer s mark.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
it is confined to the provisions of the trade marks act.
in the case of consolidated foods corporation v brandon and co.
air 1965 bombay 35 1961 indlaw mum 91it has been held vide paras 27 and 30 that the trade marks act merely facilitates the mode of proof.
apparently in such a case there is no question of infringement of any right of property in a trade mark for which any relief is sought nor is there any question of passing off so that it might be necessary to enter into questions of nicety as regards whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark.
as already stated by me while referring to the observations of sir john romily it is not really necessary for me to decide in this case as to whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark for the purpose of deciding this case.
even if it is found to be necessary to decide this question as to property in a trade mark i have already pointed out that the courts of equity in england granted relief in cases of infringement of trade marks on the basis of infringement of the right of property in the trade mark.
all that was necessary for the plaintiff to prove was that he had used that mark in respect of his particular type of goods.
as a matter of fact the statute enabled a person to have registered a mark not only which he had been using but also a mark which he proposed to use.
even so far as this country is concerned the trade marks act of 1940 does not seem to have made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark as established by the courts of chancery in england.
in in re century spinning and manufacturing co ltd.
as regards the question whether there could be any property in a trade mark the learned judge further observed on the same page as follows again turning to s 54 of the specific relief act which deals with cases when a perpetual injunction may be granted the explanation to that section lays down that for the purpose of that section a trade mark is property.
for instance under s 23 of the trade marks act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark.
as between two competitors who are each desirous of adopting such a markit is to use familiar language entirely a question of who gets there first.
gaw kan lye v saw kyone saing air 1939.
fb registration under the statute does not confer any new right to the mark claimed or any greater right than what already existed at common law and at equity without registration.
registration itself does not create a trade mark.
the trade mark exists independently of the registration which merely affords further protection under the statute.
common law rights are left wholly unaffected.
the respondent company is described as the sole distributors on the label.
applying the principle of deemed equivalence we may clarify that if the ssi unit wrongly affixes a trade mark of another person be it registered or not or if it uses the trade mark of an ineligible person then such default would not be eliminated by the above principle of deemed equivalence embodied in s 28 of the trade marks act1999 as that principle is based on a deeming fiction which fiction is confined only to the provisions of the trade marks act.
before concluding we may refer to the judgment of this court in the case of commissioner of central excise mumbai v bigen industries ltd 2006 197.
305 2006 indlaw sc 546 in that matter a show cause notice was issued calling upon the assessee to show cause why the exemption be not denied to the assessee.
in para 19 of the show cause notice the authority accepted the existence of a deed of assignment.
however the show cause notice denied the exemption on the ground that notification no 14083 ce did not make any distinction between a brand name owned by a person in india or abroad.
in the circumstances the judgment of this court in the case of bigen industries 2006 indlaw sc 546 supra has no application.
for the aforestated reasons we do not find any merit in these civil appeals.
before concluding we may point out that we do not wish to express any opinion on the subsequent events which have taken place in this case.
accordingly the civil appeals stand dismissed with no order as to costs.
