accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
the father of the bride could not pay the balance amount within time because he lacked the resources.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
it is the case of the prosecution that for non payment of dowry the accused persons harassed the deceased and subjected her to cruelty.
however upon medical examination by the doctor she was declared brought dead.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
and further a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence u s 304 b ipc both the sentences shall run concurrently.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
accused were charged with offences under sections 498a and 304b of the ipc the fir in the present case was lodged by lw 1who is the father of the deceased.
according to this witness on 23rd january2002the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused pathan hussain basha and he had accepted to give rs 25000 in marriage.
he had given only rs 15000 and had agreed to pay rs 10000 after four months.
he had called his son in law accused no 1to his house as per custom at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
his daughter after the ramzan festival had informed him that the accused persons were harassing her and were even beating and abusing her.
after seeing this she raised cries and people came to the scene.
in fact there is no dispute to the fact that the deceased died of hanging.
dr m madhusudana reddy lw 13 who was the associate professor in forensic medicine at guntur medical college performed the post mortem over the body of the deceased.
from the above evidence it is clear that the dowry demands were being raised by the accused persons persistently from the family of the deceased and for that they even harassed the deceased by beating and abusing her.
in the case of biswajit halder alias babu halder and others v state of w b 2008 1 scc 202 2007 indlaw sc 304the court stated the ingredients of this provision as follows 10 the basic ingredients to attract the provisions of section 304 b are as follows.
12 explanation appended to section.
amongst others lapse of time between the date of marriage and the date of death is also a relevant consideration for the court while examining whether the essential ingredients of the provision are satisfied or not in a given case.
in the case of ashok kumar v state of haryana 2010 12 scc 350 2010 indlaw sc 502this court explained these terms in some elucidation and the effect of the deeming fiction appearing in the section as follows 11 the appellant was charged with an offence under section 304 b of the code.
secondly that soon before her death she had been subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or any of the relatives of the husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry then such a death shall be called dowry death and the husband or the relative as the case may be will be deemed to have caused such a death.
the explanation to this section requires that the expression dowry shall have the same meaning as in s 2 of the act.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
the expressions or any time after marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties were introduced by the amending act 63 of 1984 and act 43 of 1986 with effect from 2 101985 and 19 11 1986 respectively.
this court in ran singh v state of haryana2008 4 scc 700 2008 indlaw sc 120 held that the payments which are customary payments for example given at the time of birth of a child or other ceremonies as are prevalent in the society or families to the marriage would not be covered under the expression dowry.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
this court in madhu sudan malhotra v kishore chand bhandari1988 supp.
s 4 of the act is the penal section and demanding a dowryas defined under s 2 of the act is punishable under this section.
in our view the expression soon before her death can not be given a restricted or a narrower meaning.
but even the rule of strict construction requires that the provisions have to be read in conjunction with other relevant provisions and scheme of the act.
further the interpretation given should be one which would avoid absurd results on the one hand and would further the object and cause of the law so enacted on the other.
this court in tarsem singh v state of punjab2008.
16 scc 155 2008 indlaw sc 1962 held that the legislative object in providing such a radius of time by employing the words soon before her death is to emphasise the idea that her death should in all probabilities has been the aftermath of such cruelty or harassment.
in other words there should be a reasonable if not direct nexus between her death and the dowryrelated cruelty or harassment inflicted on her.
similar view was expressed by this court in yashoda v state of m p20043 scc 98 2004 indlaw sc 132 where this court stated that determination of the period would depend on the facts and circumstances of a given case.
however the expression would normally imply that there has to be reasonable time gap between t he cruelty inflicted and the death in question.
if this is so the legislature in its wisdom would have specified any period which would attract the provisions of this section.
however there must be existence of proximate link between the acts of cruelty along with the demand of dowry and the death of the victim.
for want of any specific period the concept of reasonable period would be applicable.
the cruelty and harassment by the husband or any relative could be directly relatable to or in connection with any demand for dowry.
the expression demand for dowry will have to be construed ejusdem generis to the word immediately preceding this expression.
similarlyin connection with the marriage is an expression which has to be given a wider connotation.
these are penal provisions but ultimately these are the social legislations intended to control offences relating to the society as a whole.
dowry is something which existed in our country for a considerable time and the legislature in its wisdom considered it appropriate to enact the law relating to dowry prohibition so as to ensure that any party to the marriage is not harassed or treated with cruelty for satisfaction of demands in consideration and for subsistence of the marriage.
the court can not ignore one of the cardinal principles of criminal jurisprudence that a suspect in the indian law is entitled to the protection of art 20 of the constitution of india as well as has a presumption of innocence in his favour.
in other words the rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved guilty.
in contradistinction to this aspect the legislature has applied the concept of deeming fiction to the provisions of section 304 b where other ingredients of section 304 b are satisfied in that event the husband or all relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death.
in other words the offence shall be deemed to have been committed by fiction of law.
such a presumption can be drawn by the court keeping in view the evidence produced by the prosecution in support of the substantive charge under section 304 b of the code.
applying these principles to the facts of the present case it is clear that the ingredients of section 304b read with section 498a ipc are completely satisfied in the present case.
by a deeming fiction in law the onus shifts on to the accused to prove as to how the deceased died.
denial can not be treated to be the discharge of onus.
his acquittal has not been challenged by the state before us thus we are not called upon to discuss this aspect of the matter.
consequently we award ten years rigorous imprisonment to the appellants.
