three civil appeals stemming from three revision petitions to the high court of orissa under the orissa estates abolition act 1951 orissa act i of 1952 for short the act have reached this court thanks to special leave granted to the appellant who is common in all the cases.
the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
shri achutananda purohit appellant was the intermediary in respect of vast forests and other lands comprised in the estate of jujumura in the district of sambalpur.
this estate vested in the state on april 1 1960 by force of the act and the crucial question agitated before us consequentially turns on the quantum of compensation awardable under chapter v of the act.
the appellant has received around rs 300000 but much more according to him is due and this controversy can be settled by examining his specific points.
shri purohit appellant is an advocate by profession and is 83 years old.
he has argued in person and with passion.
we have listened with patience to all his submissions good bad and indifferent.
if we may anticipate ourselves none of the nine submissions has appealed to us save to the extent the high court has upheld.
even so a minimal narration of the facts and a brief consideration of each argument is necessary and we proceed to do so.
while his arguments did not impress us we were touched by his concluding words that he had been born and had grown in an adivasi village in the only brahmin family and in his evening years of life proposed to give a substantial part of the compensation the state would give him for adivasi welfare.
although he waxed sentimentally on this note he did not convince us on his contentions.
with these prefatory observations we proceed to formulate the many points urged and give our findings and reasons one after the other.
we are directly concerned with the issue of compensation which is dealt with as earlier stated in chapter v of the act.
the compensation officer is charged with fixing the quantum in the prescribed manner.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
of course when there is joint ownership section 24 stipulates that the compensation shall be determined for the estate as a whole and not separately for each of the shares therein.
section 26 has great relevance as it lays down the method of arriving at the gross asset and section 27 has like significance as it focuses on the manner in which the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting certain items from the gross asset of the estate.
section 28 states how the amount of compensation is to be determined and the methodology of payment.
there are a few other s s in chapter vi which deal with payment of compensation.
the act also provides for appeal second appeal and revision the last being to the high court and the earlier ones being to the collector and a board constituted under section 22.
the rule making power is vested in the government under section 47 and there is a routine removal of difficulties clause contained in section 50.
these furnish in bare outline the provisions with which we are directly concerned.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit s points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
for convenience of reference we may extract the statement by the high court of the contentions urged before it and repeated before us by the appellant.
the provisions of section 373 read with section 262.
b v of the act make it clear that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
6 unlike in case of fisheries etc.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
therefore deduction of income tax from the gross assets is illegal and unwarranted.
the policy of the law of agrarian reform postulates the extinguishment of ancient privileges and cornering of land resources and the socioeconomic yardstick is different from what applies to ordinary purchases of real estate and this is manifest in the special provisions contained in article 31a and article 31b of the constitution.
the dynamic rule of law with a social mission makes a meaningful distinction between rights steeped in the old system and compensation for deprivation of those interests on the one hand and the ordinary commercial transactions or regulation of rights untinged by social transformation urges on the other.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
moreover article 31a repels the applicability of articles 14 19 and 31 to the acquisition by the state of any estate or of any rights therein etc.
the contention is that therefore in arriving at the next income the deduction of income tax is not permissible.
the statutory scheme of compensation for forest lands consists of machinery for assessment of the net income which is multiplied on a sliding scale and the method of challenge to the determination by the aggrieved owner of state.
the section is clear that the gross income from forests must be calculated on the basis of appraisal of the annual yield on the date of vesting firstly by a forest officer and secondly by the chief conservator of forests screening it and approving it.
the appraisement can be scientifically done by looking to the age of the trees as they stand now.
both the state and the appellant filed appeals to the collector which were dismissed.
the direction given by the learned judge in the remand order is correct although it may require a little clarification.
it is astonishing that anyone should urge as the appellant did that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made and since that had not been done the compensation officer had become functus officio in awarding compensation.
before the date of vesting the state never can nor does fix the compensation through the compensation officer in any of the agrarian reform laws and these compensation operations are post statutory exercises.
therefore there is no substance in the functus officio argument.
if the officer had no jurisdiction the land would be gone because of the vesting provision and no compensation would be forthcoming for want of jurisdiction a consequence the appellant never wants.
technicality can be frightened away by technicality.
nor is it right to contend as the appellant did that the compensation officer s jurisdiction was created by the order of remand by the high court.
no it was created by the statute and canalised by the order of remand.
it follows that after the present second remand the re appraisal of the annual net income can not be done solely by the forest officer without securing the approval of the chief conservator.
nor can the compensation officer by pass the chief conservator on the misunderstood strength of the high court s first order of remand.
the true legal drill is.
certainly the chief conservator can not be ignored by the compensation officer nor can the chief conservator ignore the assessment made by the forest officer and go through an independent exercise.
with these directions and observations we affirm the orders under appeal but while dismissing the appeals direct the parties to bear their costs in this court.
