this appeal by special leave has been preferred by tata consultancy engineers against an award dated 20th december1978 of the industrial tribunal maharashtra bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
tata consultant engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of tata sons limited.
it functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
its work force consists of engineers and supervisors and different categories of workmen.
out of 665 employees at bombay the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306 these workmen are members of the tata consultant employees union.
they served a charter of demands in july1974on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the state government made a reference of the dispute under s 101 dindustrial tribunal maharashtra for adjudication.
the reference was numbered i t no 292 of 1975.
the union filed a statement before the tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
it was urged that the efficiency bar as a feature of the wage scales should be removed.
the dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
the claim of the union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the union were accepted.
reference was made to the political uncertainty in iran which had placed an appreciable part of the appellant s business in jeopardy and to various other factors peculiar to an engineering consultancy business beyond the appellant s control.
there was fierce competition also it was asserted from other similar organisations.
there was no separate dearness allowance until january1977 when it was introduced for the first time.
house rent allowance was also paid.
dearness allowance became payable at 10 of the basic wage subject to a minimum of rs 50 and house rent allowance at 30 of the basic salary.
nothing those facts the tribunal observed that compared with the increased paying capacity of the appellant an inference drawn from the prosperity enjoyed by the appellant over the years there was definite need for revising the wage scales.
in proceeding to revise the wage structure the tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
wage scale statements were filed by the parties before the tribunal pertaining to several engineering consultancy organisations but.
in the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force the extent of their business the financial position for some years the capital invested the precise nature of the business the position regarding reserves dividends declared and future prospects of the company the tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns.
holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden in this connection it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of tata sons limited and had no functional integrality with the other divisions.
the union modified its demands but even the modified terms according to the tribunal appeared to be on the high side inasmuch as the resulting total burden of rs 1 70 crores was much higher than the average profits could sustain.
the particular character of the appellant that it was a service industry and not a manufacturing concern was taken into account and it was observed that unlike a manufacturing business there was little scope for diversification in the case of an engineering consultancy.
nonetheless the tribunal observed there was every reason to expect that the appellant would be able to earn sound profits in the future and the instability in its business activities occasioned by the turbulent political situation in iran would be it was expected compensated by contracts secured in different developing countries.
for the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal followed unichem laboratories v their workmen 1972 indlaw sc 181 where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account of taxation development rebate and depreciation.
the tribunal maintained the existing schemes of dearness allowance and house rent allowance and observed that in view of the revised basic wages there would be a resultant increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
sd k n wani industrial tribunal.
considering the appeal of tata consulting engineers first the contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that having regard to the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal erred in making the wage scales retrospective and in any event in ranging the retrospectivity back to 1st january1976.
during all these years the appellant had continued to enjoy increasing profits nonetheless the emoluments received by the workmen did not receive the impress of the appellant s growing prosperity.
the charter of demands was presented by the union in july1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the state government made the reference to the industrial tribunal in 1975 the tribunal has referred to various considerations which prevailed with it in giving retrospectivity to the revised pay scales.
accordingly the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
the challenge embodied in the second contention against the amendment of the award is more serious.
it is urged that the amendment results in the inclusion of a flat increase of rs 150 to each workman in the case of draughtsman and rs 100 to each workman in the case of other categories a result wholly unwarranted it is said by the intent of the original award and therefore falling beyond the jurisdiction of the tribunal.
in making the application of 22nd.
december1978the union invoked the jurisdiction of the.
the jurisdiction given to the tribunal by rule 31 is closely circumscribed.
it is only a clerical mistake or error which can be corrected and the clerical mistake or error must arise from an accidental slip or omission in the award.
it must not be a mistake or error which calls for rectification by modification of the conscious adjudication on the issues involved.
the financial capacity of the appellant and the related study of its annual profits from 1968 to 1977were examined from that view point.
individual workmen were not present to the mind of the tribunal.
the evidence contained in the award throughout provides incontrovertible proof that this flat increase was never originally intended in the award.
the amendment has resulted in the tribunal making as it were a supplementary award whereby a further relief is being granted beyond that granted in the original award.
the corrigendum amending the award in consequence is liable to be quashed.
the only contention of the workmen is that the tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
reliance was placed on the hindustan times ltd new delhi v their workmen 1964 1 scr 234 1962 indlaw sc 436247 where it was observed by this court that dearness allowance should not remain fixed at any figure but should be on a sliding scale in order to neutralise a portion of the increase in the cost of living.
reference was also made to bengal chemical pharmaceutical works limited v its workmen.
2 scr 113 1968 indlaw sc 183 now it is not a universal rule that the dearness allowance should in all cases be correlated with the cost of living index.
the primary and basic question considered by the industrial tribunal in making the award dated december 201978 was the question of revision of the wage scales.
implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
while we find lot of force in the submission of shri v m tarkunde learned counsel for the workmen that dearness allowance linked to cost of living index is ordinarily the best and the most scientific method of computing dearness allowance it can not always be said that an illegality warranting interference under article 136 is committed if some other method is adopted.
the order of the court was as follows.
