the order of the court was as follows.
in these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine engineering pharmacy nursing etc in educational institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this court in j p unni krishnan v state of a p 1993.
1 scc 645 1993 indlaw sc 1056.
i as well as the applicability of the rules and orders made by several state governments on the basis of the said decision.
by order dated october 71993 passed by the constitution bench three questions were referred for consideration by a larger bench.
in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted.
the hearing of the matters was therefore adjourned to march 181994on which date the questions requiring consideration by this bench have been reframed to highlight the several aspects of the claims put forward by the petitioners.
the claim of being a minority whether based on religion or language and the claim of being a minority educational institution put forward by the petitioners can not be pronounced upon without first ascertaining what the said expressions connote and signify.
having regard to the importance of the questions involved we consider it appropriate to issue notice to the attorney general of india as well as the advocates general for the states.
it would therefore not be feasible to take up the hearing of these matters before the court closes for the long vacation.
since the process of selection of candidates for admission for the next academic session is to commence soon it is necessary to pass an interim order governing admission to the professional courses in minority educational institutions for the next academic session.
for admission in the last academic session 1993 94an interim order in the following terms was made by a bench comprising honourable the chief justice and one of us justice b p jeevan reddy on may 141993 in writ petition nos 350 and 355 of 1993.
we have heard shri soli j sorabjee learned senior counsel for the petitioners in these two writ petitions.
there will be an interim order in the following terms i fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test.
the candidates so selected and admitted shall pay scales of fee as applicable to this class of students as determined by the state government from time to time.
it is optional for the petitioners to adopt any one of these three modes and apply it uniformally.
candidates so selected on the basis of merit amongst the minorities shall however abide by such condition in the matter of payment of tuition and other fee as may be permitted by the state government.
it is made clear that this order is made on the assumption that the petitioners are minority institutions.
it is open to the respondents to question this status claimed by the petitioners.
thereafter the matter was considered by the constitution bench in its order dated august 1819932 in that order the writ petitions placed before the bench were categorised into five categories namely1 unaided minority educational institutions2.
minority educational institutions which are in receipt of state funds by way of aid3 minority educational institutions in respect of which it is not clear from the averments in the writ petitions whether they are aided or unaided institutions4.
writ petitions challenging the correctness and applicability of unni krishnan filed by educational institutions which do not claim to be minority educational institutions5 writ petitions which do not fall in any of the above categories.
it was directed that the order dated may 141993would not apply to educational institutions falling in categories 4 and 5 and the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 181993 the order dated may 141993was made applicable to the institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 with the modification that following were added in continuation of the said order in continuation it is made further clear that whether any of the petitioner institutions is a mei or not is a matter for the government to verify and determine.
this order shall be shahal h musaliar v state of kerala1993 4 scc.
they shall also bring any such violation to the notice of this court by way of any interlocutory application.
any such irregularity if proved may entail serious consequences.
this information should be furnished to the competent authority to the university to which the said colleges are affiliated and to the secretary education department government of karnataka tamil nadu.
i e 1993with the direction that the basis of the said selection would be as indicated in order dated may 1419934 on the basis of merit leaving to the management of the college t m a pai foundation v state of karnataka1993.
since the entire expenditure of the colleges is borne by the state the entire fees collected are also made over to the state these colleges must be required to draw the students even with respect to the seats to be filled by the management from out of the state merit list if any.
that is a matter between the institutions and the government of kerala.
but it would be open for the management of the institution to adjudge the merit of the candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
the contempt petition nos 65100 and 126 of 1992 arise out of the judgment of this court in keshav chandra joshi v union of india 1990 indlaw sc 270 in which this court had directed to determine inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotee asstt.
until they are appointed by the governor according to the rules they do not become the members of the service in a substantive capacity.
the direct recruits were appointed in accordance with rule 5a read with appendix a of u p forest service rules1952 for short the rules.
we are informed that till date no appointments in terms thereof have been made.
the seniority of the promotee asstt.
conservators forest shall be counted from the respective dates of appointment to the substantive posts in their quota under rule 6 of the rules.
231991this court observed thus we are told by the counsel for the state of u p that for the purpose of working out the seniority draft list has been prepared and was in circulation inviting objections.
treating them to be temporary as shown in the seniority list prepared by the state is in utter contempt of the directions in joshi case1.
the promotees therefore are entitled to 50 per cent of the posts.
as in the year 199072 more posts were created and the total posts are now 330 therefore they are entitled to 50 per cent of the quota in the tentative list.
thereby the action of the state is in defiance of the direction issued by this court.
the permanent posts are 102 and temporary posts are 173 and the total would come to 275 as per rules 5 and 24 only permanent posts should be counted as substantive posts and temporary posts can not be counted for fixation of the seniority.
since the seniority as per the direction of this court was made only to substantive posts some of the direct recruits became temporary direct recruits and the seniority was determined accordingly.
in the light of the respective contentions the question arises whether the determination of the seniority is in accordance with the directions issued by this court.
in the light of the background scenario we can not strictly take it to be a case of contempt but in working out the directions issued by this court the state government committed a mistake in law.
we have to consider therefore whether the procedure adopted by the sate to determine the inter se seniority is in accordance with the rules and the law laid down in k c joshi case.
indisputably a decision was taken on march 11975 to increase the quota to 50 per cent but no amendment to the statutory rules to give effect to it was made.
therefore the operative rule as on that date appears to be 33 13 per cent in respect of promotees.
therefore the procedure to be adopted by the state in fixing the inter se seniority of the direct recruits and the promotees in their respective quota is the sole question.
there is no rota prescribed in the rules.
therefore the state is enjoined to implement the judgment of this court in the light of the statutory rules.
it is clear from the counter affidavit filed by the state that the posts are both permanent and temporary.
if the temporary posts are likely to continue for long normally as per the law laid down by this court they be treated for the purpose of counting seniority as permanent posts unless they are likely to be abolished.
it is a policy matter.
therefore the state has to determine whether the posts are likely to be made permanent or abolished.
in the event of converting them as permanent under rule 24the quota prescribed in rule 6 would be applied to substantive posts.
the officers he they direct recruits or promotees would rank below the juniormost officer in the list of the previous year.
it would be open to the state government to fix tentatively the inter se seniority in the temporary posts according to the ratio between the direct recruits and the promotees in the same manner of filling the substantive posts as indicated above.
as and when the temporary posts are converted either into permanent posts or the vacancies arise due to superannuation of the senior officers they should be fixed in the respective vacancies and fitment made.
the state government is directed to undertake fresh exercise in the light of the above directions and complete the same within a period of four months from the date of the receipt of the order.
the contempt petitions are accordingly disposed of.
