these three appeals by special leave are directed against one and the same judgment dated 25 09 l992 of the division bench of calcutta high court.
the three appellants are the state of west bengal in appeal arising out of slp c no 401 of 1993the state fishery development corporation ltd in appeal arising out of slp c no 13516 of 1992 and bansilal farms in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992.
the respondents are the members of one sarkar family in the city of calcutta.
a suit for partition was filed by one of the co sharers of said sarkar family in the high court of calcutta on 3 9 1955which was registered as suit no 2539 of 1955 the schedule of properties included the disputed nalban fishery.
a learned single judge of the calcutta high court passed a preliminary decree in the said suit on 11 8 1960 one of the co sharers of the sarkar family preferred an appeal against the preliminary decree before the division bench which was registered as appeal no200 of 1960 during the pendency of the aforesaid appeal the state of west.
bengal requisitioned large extent of fisheries including the disputed nalban fishery on 5 11 1969 in exercise of power under section 31 of the west bengal land requisition and acquisition act of 1948 hereinafter referred to as the requisition act pursuant to the aforesaid requisition order the state of west bengal took possession of the nalban fishery on 8 11 1969 members of the sarkar family challenged the order of requisition by filing a writ petition in calcutta high court in november1969 which was registered as civil rule no 7317 w of 1969 the aforesaid writ petition was dismissed by the learned single judge.
the appeal to the division bench was preferred against the aforesaid order of dismissal which was registered as f m a no 126 of 1970 the division bench dismissed the appeal by its order dated 5 7 1971 sarkar family moved this court in slp c no 1452 of 1972 by order dated 17 11 1972.
this court dismissed the special leave petition.
prior to the passing of the aforesaid order on april 181979 while granting special leave petition on 10 11 1978 this court had directed that the state of west bengal will be made a party to the proceeding and further the collector parganas was appointed as receiver in respect of the fisheries owned by the sarkar family.
pursuant to the aforesaid order appointing collector 24 parganas as receiver.
bengal was in fact in possession of the said fishery.
the receiver therefore intimated to the registrar of this court the mistake committed by him in his earlier report and after taking advice from the senior counsel expressed apology to this court for the mistake committed in the earlier report while the matter stood thus in relation to the aforesaid nalban fishery the government of west bengal handed over the possession of the said nalban fishery to the director of inland fisheries state fisheries development corporation for undertaking fisheries development scheme.
the aforesaid corporation issued an advertisement for auctioning the nalban fishery for a boating complex.
the sarkar family thereupon filed an application before the calcutta high court contending inter alia that under the decree passed in the partition suit by the supreme court the property belongs to the sarkar family and could not have been handed over to the state of west bengal that application was disposed of by the learned single called upon the collector 24 parganas who was the receiver pursuance to the orders of the supreme court to take over the possession of nalban fishery from the state of west bengal and give vacant possession of the same to the sarkar family.
it may be noticed at this stage that bansilal farms appellant in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992 was the highest offerer for running the boating complex on the surface water of nalban fishery and had been granted licence for that purpose and in fact had started the operation of the boating complex since 1991 but on the application of mrs dhira mitra one of the co sharers of the sarkar family the high court having issued an order of injunction the farm is no longer operating.
mr harish salve the learned senior counsel for the state of west bengal.
under the circumstances the said receiver rightly intimated this court about the mistake committed by him and re delivered possession of nalban fishery to the state of west bengal.
the calcutta high court both the learned single judge as well as the division bench committed serious error of law in directing the receiver to take possession of nalban fishery from the state of west bengal and deliver the vacant possession of the same to the members of the sarkar family.
the learned counsel also urged that in any view of the matter on the amendment of the west bengal land reforms act in the year 1936 giving it retrospective effect and defining land to include tank fishery the nalban fishery vests in the state of west bengal and therefore the high court could not have issued the impugned direction.
the subsequent incumbent to the post of district magistrate 24 parganas who became the receiver by virtue of his official position had no further jurisdiction to re deliver possession of the nalban fishery to the state of west bengal and the comments already made by the high court on the report of the subsequent receiver sufficiently indicate how he had acted with the bias mind and consequently the nalban fishery having not vested in the state of west bengal under the acquisition act the decree passed by the supreme court on 18 4 1979 remains operative.
bengal and therefore it would not be open for the said state in application for execution of the decree to raise the question of vesting of the nalban fishery with the state and the court would not interfere with the direction given by the learned single judge and division bench of the calcutta high court.
on the question of vesting of the tank fishery under the amended provisions of the west bengal land reforms act mr.
that the tank fishery vested with the state of west bengal.
in this connection he had further urged that this question had not been raised before the high court.
bengal.
it is also not disputed that the state of west bengal though was not a party to the suit but in course of proceeding before this court by an order of the court the said state of west bengal was impleaded as a party.
bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they are vested in the state under the provisions of west bengal estates acquisition act1953.
the receiver appointed by a court is an officer of the court.
bengal in respect of the nalban fishery as the state was not a party to the proceedings.
we would further observe that the state should determine the amount of compensation which the sarkar family is entitled to under the relevant provisions of the act under which nalban fishery vests with the state of west bengal and the compensation amount be paid on being determined in accordance with the law to the family members of sarkar family in whose favour nalban fishery had been allotted under the compromise decree by this court.
order accordingly.
