leave granted.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
the factual matrix of the matter which is not much in dispute is as under.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
respondent no 1 thereafter filed a suit in the delhi high court for grant of a decree of permanent injunction being suit no 2408 of 1985 alleging infringement of the said mark andor claiming right of passing off in respect thereof.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
notice for april 81986 meanwhile a temporary ex parte injunction is issued against the defendants restraining them from manufacturing or selling either themselves or through any dealer or representative diesel oil engines or parts thereof with the trade mark field marshal andor any other trade mark identical therewith and all goods falling in cl 7 of the trade and merchandise mark rules.
the plaintiff shall comply with the requirements of order 39 rule 4 of the code of civil procedure.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
jain industries by a deed of assignment assigned the said trade mark along with its goodwill in favour of the appellant.
indisputably first respondent filed an application under section 4656 and 107 of the act marked as c o no 9 of 1986contending that m s jain industries having not used the trade mark in respect of centrifugal pumps for a period more than five years and one month the mark should be taken off the register.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
indisputably appellant filed an application in form tm 24 on 17 6 1986 the assistant registrar trade marks passed an order on 10 11 1986 certifying that the trade mark field marshal brand word per se is registered under no 228867 in part a of the register as of the date 13th.
may1965 in class 7 in respect of flour mills circulating and centrifugal pumps coupling for machines pulleys included in class 7and valves parts of machines in the name of pooran chand jain and kailash chand jain trading as jain industries1166phatak.
that pursuant to a request on form tm 23 dated 17th june1986 and order thereon dated 24th october1986.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
appellant s counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
in view of that statement a submission was made on behalf of the first respondent that it may be permitted to withdraw the petition with liberty to file a fresh petition on the same cause of action.
the learned judge directed recording of statements of the learned counsel in this behalf pursuant whereto the same were recorded which reads as under c o 9 of 1986.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
the petition is accordingly filed as withdrawn leaving the parties to bear their own costs.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
the board has taken the view that the period of five years and one month will begin to run from the date on which thukral became the proprietor of the trademark that is30th may1986 and therefore the rectification application could have been filed by the appellant only sometime in 1991 opining that an application for rectification against the appellant within a period of seven and a half months from the date of assignment of the trade mark was not maintainable the application was dismissed.
the act was enacted to provide for the registration and better protection of trademarks and for the prevention of the use of fraudulent marks of merchandise.
it may mean the moment or existing position as was held by this court in the case of jivendra nath kaul v collector district magistrate and anr 1992.
3 scc 576 1992 indlaw sc 1107 or in the context of cl 22 of art 366 of the constitution as has been held in h h maharajadhiraja.
madhav rao jivaji rao scindia bahadur of gwalior h h maharajadhiraja.
maharana shri bhagwat singhji bahadur of udaipur v union of india and anr air 1971.
it confers an exclusive right of use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in which the trade mark is registered.
the same is an assignable right in terms of s 36 of the act whereas an unregistered trade mark is not.
when the applicant before the board establishes the fact in regard to non user of the mark for a period of more than five years on the part of the registered owner the latter may show that his case falls within the purview of sub s 3 of s 46.
the question which therefore arises is as to who can prove that he had the bona fide intention to use the trade mark on the date of application for registration.
a registered proprietor of a trade mark should not be permitted to circumvent the law of user of the trade mark for a long time by assigning the same from time to time.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances co ors 2008 8 scale 354 2008 indlaw sc 1395this court held we do not find any force in the aforementioned submission.
v addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under s 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in s 56 for canceling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
that the appellant was an infringer both of the right of m s jain industries as also the first respondent and thus its use was not bona fide in a case of this nature can not be accepted.
prima facie therefore appellant has been held to be the registered owner of the trade mark.
consequential amendments have been made to cover services cl 47 of the bill.
the court while construing a statute takes into consideration the parliamentary intent in amending the provisions thereof.
we are not satisfied with the explanation offered by the first respondent that it gave up the case of non use of the registered trade mark against m s jain industries on the basis of statement made by the learned counsel for the appellant firstly because consent does not confer jurisdiction secondly because want andor lack of jurisdiction on the part of the tribunal can not be waived as if any order is passed without jurisdiction the same would be a nullity and thirdly because the cause of action even according to the first respondent in his application before the high court was different.
it only consented for grant of liberty in favour of the first respondent for filing of an application for the self same cause of action.
the cause of action which permitted the first respondent to file an application for rectification against m s jain industries was non user thereof by it.
its non user and rectification of the register could not in the aforementioned situation have been tagged with the cause of action if any against the appellant.
the second contention of mr that the appellant was an infringer of the trade mark is again a question of fact.
the right of the first respondent as a proprietor of the trade mark by reason of a long user is required to be determined vis  vis m s jain industries as also the appellant in the suit filed by it which is pending.
the board could not while exercising its jurisdiction under s 461bof the act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
in the suit only the competing right of the first respondent qua the appellant can be determined and not a right against m s such a right can not be determined in a proceeding under s 461b of the act which is restricted to non user of the registered trade mark.
both the appellant and the respondent no 1 were the infringers of the right of m s jain industries as it was the registered proprietor of the trade mark in respect of the goods in question namely centrifugal pumps.
the principle of purchaser of a property has a duty to make enquiriestherefore cannot apply in a case of this nature.
in the case of american home products corporation v mac laboratories pvt ltd.
