Appeals by special leave from the judgment and order dated  March 6 1967 of the Orissa High Court in OJC Nos.
495 and 496 of 1966 and 3 4 27 and 28 of 1967 respectively.
In Orissa as in most of the other States that practice continued till the decision of tiffs Court in the State of Assam vs Ranga Mahammad and others1.
district judges from one post to another whether as a judge or to one of the posts in the secretariat was in his hands.
The High Court insisted that ordinarily judicial officers should not hold those posts for more than three years.
On that account there appears to have been some friction between the High Court and the gov ernment for some years past.
Thereafter he was posted as superintendent and legal remembrancer.
On September 21 1966 this Court rendered its decision in Ranga Mahammad s1 case.
Those officers acted in accordance with the orders of the government.
Therefore these appeals were filed after obtaining special leave from this Court.
It was not the case of the contesting respondents that Shri PC Dey Shri KK Bose and Shri BK Patro had not the necessary qualifications to hold the posts they were holding.
It was also not disputed that they had been validly appointed to those posts.
In these circumstances we fail to see how the High Court could have held that they had no authority to hold the posts in question.
As mentioned earlier member sales tax tribunal was an ex cadre post.
district and sessions judge.
the State government or the High Court.
1  2  161 namely whether the power to transfer District Judges is included in the control  exercisable by the High Court over District Courts under article 235 or in the power of appointment of persons to be and the posting and promotion of district judges  which is to be exercised by the Governor under article 233 albeit in consultation with the High Court.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues with personal information deal with the matter than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
