iminal Appeal No 48 of 1954.
Jai Gopal Sethi Naunit Lal with him for the appellant.
N section Bindra Porus A Mehta and P G Gokhale with him for the respondent.
The appellant was a Sub Divisional Officer in the Public Works Department Pepsu and was at the material dates in charge of certain works at a place called Karhali.
He held on the evidence that there was a khalasi Parma by name in the service of the accused at Kehrauli and that though the thumbimpression in the acquittance roll was that of the appellant the prosecution had not established that the amount drawn by him did not reach the hands of Parma.
Against this judgment there was an appeal by the State to the High Court of Pepsu which held that proof that the thumb impression in the acquittance roll was that of the appellant was sufficient when taken along with other circumstances to establish his guilt and accordingly convicted him both under section 465 and section 409 of the Indian Penal Code.
According to the respondent however the main charge against the appellant is under section 409 and no sanction is required for a prosecution under that section.
The point for decision is whether sanction under section 197 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is necessary for prosecuting the appellant under section 409.
2 3 1948 LR 70 IA 185 1307 The King1 and adopted by this Court in R W Mathams V State of We8t Bengal1.
Now it is evident that the entrustment andor dominion here were in an official capacity and it is equally evident that there could in this case be no disposal lawful or otherwise save by an act done or purporting to be done in an official capacity.
3 1948 LR 75 IA 41.
1310 of which he was charged  ie acts of fraudulently misapplying money entrusted to his care as a public servant as acts done by him by virtue of the office that he held  .
But if they are unconnected with such duties then no sanction is necessary.
In this view we have to examine whether the acts with which the appellant is charged directly bear on the duties which he has got to discharge as a public servant.
The conviction should therefore be quashed.
In this view there is no need to consider whether on the evidence the offence of criminal misappropriation or forgery has been brought home to the appellant or not.
Appeal allowed.
