If a partition were to take place during Khandappa s lifetime between himself and his two sons the plaintiff would have got 14th share in the joint family properties the other three getting 14th share each.
Khandappa s 14th share would devolve upon his death on six sharers the plaintiff and her five children each having a 124th share therein.
Adding 14th and 124th the plaintiff claims a 724th share in the joint family properties.
That in short is the plaintiffs case.
Defendants 2 to 5 admitted the plaintiff s claim the suit having H been contested by defendant 1 Gurupad only.
There was therefore no question of a fresh partition.
became indisputably entitled to a share in the joint family properties but following the judgment of the Bombay High Court in Shiramabai Bhimgonda vs Kalgonda1 the learned trial judge limited that share to 124th refusing to add 14th and 124th together.
Defendant I has filed this appeal against the High Court s judgment by special leave.
Another Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Rangubai Lalji vs Laxman Lalji2 had already reconsidered and dissented from earlier Division Bench judgment in Shiramabai Bhimgonda1 In these two cases the judgment of the Bench was delivered by the same learned Judge Patel J.
On further consideration the learned Judge felt that Shiramabai1 was not fully argued and was incorrectly decided and that on a true view of law the widow s share must be ascertained by adding the share to which she is entitled at a notional partition during her husband s life time and the share which she would get in her husband s interest upon his death.
In the judgment under appeal the High Court has based itself on the judgment in Rangubai Lalji2 endorsing indirectly the view that Shiramabai1 was incorrectly decided.
Since the view of the High.
That section reads thus 6.
By the application of the normal rule prescribed by that section Khandappa s interest in the coparcenary property would devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
Before considering the implications of Explanation 1 it is necessary to remember that what section 6 deals with is devolution of the interest which a male Hindu has in a Mitakshare coparcenary property at 766 the time of his death.
Two things become necessary to determine for the purpose of giving relief to the plaintiff.
The proviso to section 6 contains the formula for fixing the share of the claimant while Explanation 1 contains a formula for deducing the share of the deceased.
As between them the two sons the three daughters and the widow will take equally each having one share in the deceased s property under section 10 read with Rules 1 and 2 of that section.
The next step equally important though not equally easy to work out is to find out the share which the deceased had in the coparcenary property because after all the plaintiff has a 16th interest in that share.
One must therefore imagine a state of affairs in which a little prior to Khandappa s death a partition of the coparcenary property was effected between him and other members of the coparcenary.
In a partition between Khandappa and his two sons there would be four sharers in the coparcenary property the fourth being Khandappa s wife the plaintiff.
The learned trial Judge relying upon the decision in Shiramabai which was later overruled by the Bombay High Court accepted the former contention while the High Court accepted the latter.
Whether a partition had actually taken place between the plaintiff s husband and his sons is beside the point for the purposes of Explanation 1.
