R Nagarathnam for the Appellant.
P Parmeswara Rao and G N Rao for the Respondent.
The appellant was acquitted by the learned Additional Sessions judge Chittoor of an offence under Section 302 Indian Penal Code.
The acquittal was reversed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh and the appellant was convicted under Section 302 Indian Penal Code and sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life.
The upper lobe of the left lung had been cut through and through and had collapsed.
P W 13 the Medical officer who examined the accused found several abrasions and contusions on the person of the accused.
He regained consciousness next morning.
He referred to the evidence of me Doctor who stated that the injury found on the deceased could have been caused even if she was standing.
The learned Sessions Judge thought that when there were two divergent versions given by the prosecution and the defence and when two views were possible the benefit of doubt should be given to the accused.
The High Court observed that the learned Sessions Judge had magnified the importance to be attached to minor discrepancies.
In this appeal the learned Counsel for the appellant argued that the accused had no motive to kill his wife and that his version was more probable than the version of the prosecution.
We have perused the relevant evidence as well as the judgments of the Sessions Judge and the High Court.
The injury must have been caused in the manner suggested by the prosecution that 368 is when the deceased was lying on her right side.
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence the prosecution tried to make P W 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
We do not think that the comment is justified.
PW 3 an old woman of 69 years stated in her evidence that she saw the accused who was sitting by the side of the deceased on the cot make a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased and that the deceased cried out Amma  In cross examination she stated that she did not remember if she had told the Police that the accused made a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
The Inspector of Police P W 15 however stated that P W 3 did not state before him that she saw the accused making a gesture as if he was stabbing the deceased.
We do not think that we will be justified in rejecting the evidence of all the prosecution witnesses on the basis of this statement of P W 3.
At the worst the so called improvement made by her may be rejected but no more.
We are afraid the learned Sessions Judge allowed himself to be assailed by airy and fanciful doubts.
The learned Counsel for the appellant advanced the usual argument submitted in all cases where an order of acquittal is reversed namely that where two views of the evidence are possible the accused is entitled to the benefit of the doubt arising from the two views and that where the Trial Court has taken a possible view and acquitted the accused the High Court should not interfere with the order of acquittal merely because another view is also possible.
At one time it was thou ht that an order of acquittal could be set aside for substantial and compelling reasons only and Courts used to launch on a search to discover those substantial and compelling reasons.
