minal Appeals Nos.
91 to 93 of 1954.
J B Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain for the appellant.
N C Chakravarty for the appellants.
In Criminal Appeals Nos 92 and 93 of 1954.
P A Mehta and P G Gokhale for the respondent.
December 3.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BOSE J.
Five persons including the three appellants were prosecuted for the murder of one Ram chander Shelke.
Each was convicted and each was 1085 sentenced to death under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.
They differed.
The former considered that the convictions should be maintained but was of opinion that the sentence in each case should be commuted to imprisonment for life.
The latter favoured an acquittal in all five cases.
The matter was accordingly referred to a third Judge P J Reddy J He agreed with the first about the convictions and adjudged all five to be guilty under section 302.
On the question of sentence he considered that the death sentences on the three appellants Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia should be maintained and that those of the other two should be commuted to transportation for life.
It seems that the opinion of the third Judge was accepted as the decision of the Court and so the sentences suggested by him were maintained as well as the convictions.
All five convicts then applied to the High Court for leave to appeal.
The petition was heard by Ali Khan and Reddy JJ.
and they made the following order The circumstances of the crime in this case were such that a brutal murder had been committed and sentence of death was the only one legally possible for the Sessions Judge to have passed and it was confirmed by the High Court.
Leave to appeal was refused.
Pandurang Tukia and Bhilia who were sentenced to death applied here for special leave to appeal.
Their petition was granted.
He is Mahadappa PW 9.
Now nobody tells us who carried the report to the Police Station.
The Inquest Report shows eight injuries.
Rasikabai adds that he also hit Ramchander on the bead.
It requires a pre arranged plan because before a man can be vicariously convicted for the 1095 criminal act of another the act must have been done in furtherance of the common intention of them all Mahbub Shah vs King Emperor1.
Accordingly there must have been a prior meeting of minds.
At bottom it is a question of fact in every case and however similar the circumstances facts in one case cannot be used as a precedent to determine the conclusion on the facts in another.
