4053 to 4056 of 1985.
These appeals raise common questions of law and may therefore be disposed of by a common judgment.
By the time the proviso came into force 36 permits had been granted by the Karnataka State Transport Authority and 14 remained to be granted.
By an order dated February 1 1984 the Supreme Court directed the Karnataka State Transport Authority to dispose of these applications.
The State Transport Authority by its proceedings dated April 30 1984 granted 11 out of the 14 permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation one permit to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation and two permits to the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation.
A number of appeals were preferred to the Karnataka State Transport Appellate Tribunal.
The Tribunal by its order dated February 28 1985 set aside the grant of the two permits in favour of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation set aside the grant of three out of eleven permits to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and instead granted three permits to private operators and increased the number of permits granted to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation from one to three.
It was on that ground again it was so stated by the Tribunal that some of the appellants 1012 before the Tribunal had to be denied the grant of permits though otherwise they would have been entitled to the grant of permits having regard to their expertise experience and resources.
The Tribunal rejected their appeals regretfully.
A large number of applicants filed writ petitions in the High Court.
The writ petitions were rejected by the High Court on the ground that the preference contemplated by the proviso to section 637 contemplated exclusion of the non preferred  class if sufficient number of applicants from the preferred classes were available.
Shri Shanti Bhushan learned counsel for the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation Dr Chitley learned counsel for some of the private operators Shri Datar learned counsel for the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation Shri Sampat and Shri Javali learned counsel for other private operators submitted that the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court were wrong in distinguishing the decision of this court in Sher Singh s case and that the true position was that on a correct interpretation of the proviso to sec.
It was also urged that the fourth sub clause of the proviso offended article 14 and had to be struck down.
Chapter IV A relates to special provisions relating to State Transport Under takings.
In the judgment under appeal the High Court attempted to distinguish the decision of this Court in Sher Singh s case on the ground that any other interpretation would have wiped out the difference between Chapter IV and Chapter IV A.
In the second place we have no indication as to the manner in which the approval of the Central Government is to be sought and granted and the considerations which are expected to weigh with the Central Government.
637 of the .
In the result we set aside the orders of the State Transport Appellate Tribunal and the High Court and direct the State Transport Appellate Tribunal to hear the appeals in the light of what we have said.
