From the Judgment and Order dated 1781985 of the Allahabad High Court in CM Writ No 6849 of 1984.
On the passing of the said Ordinance the management of the controlled business of all the insurers in India thus vested in the Central Government and pending the appointment of the custodians for the controlled business of any insurer the person in charge of the management of such business immedi ately before the passing of the Ordinance was required to be in charge of the management of the business for and on behalf of the Central Government.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
Under the Act the expression appointed day  is de fined as the date on which the Corporation is established.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
When the Corporation thus came into existence it had no employees of its own to carry on the vast business of the large number of insurers which had been taken over by it.
It therefore became necessary to transfer the services of the existing employees of the insurers to the Corporation because without the services of those employees it was almost impossible for the Corporation to run the life insur ance business in India which involved management of the various offices situated in different parts of India serv icing of lakhs of insurance policies the administration of the assets taken over from the insurers and several other activities connected with the life insurance business.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
Transfer of service of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation 1 Every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with his controlled business immediately before the appointed day shall on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corporation and shall hold his office therein by the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privi leges as to pen 190 sion and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if this Act had not been passed and shall continue to do so unless and until his employ ment in the Corporation is terminated or until his remuneration terms and conditions are duly altered by the Corporation Provided that nothing contained in this sub section shall apply to any such employee who has by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to the ap pointed day intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
2 Notwithstanding anything con tained in sub section 1 or in any contract of service the Central Government may for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in it or for the purpose of reducing the remuner ation payable to employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyhold ers a reduction is called for alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thinks fit and if the alteration is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months  remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
3 If any question arises as to whether any person was a whole time employee of an insurer or as to whether any employee was employed wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business of an insurer immediately before the appointed day the question shall be referred to the Central Government whose decision shall be final.
4 Notwithstanding anything contained in the 14 of 1947 or in any other 191 law for the time being in force the transfer of the serv ices of any employee of an insurer to the Corporation shall not entitle any such employee to any compensation under that Act or other law and no such claim shall be entertained by any Court tribunal or other authority.
 Sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act provided that every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in the Corpora tion and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business immediately before the appointed day ie September 1 1956 would on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corpora tion and would hold his office therein by the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and condi tions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if the Act had not been passed and would continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation was terminated and until his remunera tion terms and conditions were duly altered by the Corpora tion.
The proviso to that sub section provided that nothing contained in sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act would apply to any such employee who had by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to September 1 1956 intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
The whole time employees of the erstwhile insurers whose services were thus transferred to the Corpo ration are hereinafter referred to as the transferred employees  of the Corporation.
As mentioned earlier there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27000 whole time employees working in them.
It was naturally difficult to continue after the establishment of the Corporation in the cases of all the transferred employees the conditions of service enjoyed by them when they were in the employment of the former insur ers.
In many cases the insurers had permitted their employees to continue in their service even beyond 60 years depending upon their efficiency and physical capacity.
It therefore became necessary to bring about uniformity in the conditions of service of the transferred employees.
Explanation The compensation payable to an employee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension gratuity provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
Under regulation 21 of the Staff Regulations 1956 provision was made regarding superannuation and retirement of the employ ees of the Corporation.
Provided further that during the three years beginning from 1st September 1956 the Executive Committee may at its discretion extend the service of a class I employee who has completed sixty years of age for such period as may be specified but not exceeding one year at a time if such extension is considered necessary in the inter est of the Corporation.
The longitudinal division of the employees was as follows.
The employees of the Corporation were divided lati tudinally into two groups.
The sub section envisages alteration by the Corporation.
The second limb of sub section.
There is provision for the transfer of the assets and liabilities pertaining to the business of provident funds 206 superannuation and other like funds of the services of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation and also of the services of existing employees of chief agents of the insurers to the Corporation and finally for the payment of compensation to the insurers for the transfer of the busi ness to the Corporation.
There is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section 2 in respect of transferred employees being struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part 111 of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees.
The fixation of 60 years as the age of superan nuation in the case of transferred employees cannot be considered to be unreasonable in view of the history of this case.
v The State of Haryana  Ors.
We do not also find much substance in the contention of the 1st Respondent that there cannot be any discrimination as regards the age of retirement between the employees belonging to Class I and Class II on the one hand and Class III and Class IV on the other.
