From the Judgment and Order dated 17111980 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Appeal No 251 of 1977.
FR Nariman EK Jose PH Parekh and Miss Sunita Sharma for the Appellant.
This appeal by special leave arises from the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay dated 17th of November 1980.
The main question involved in this appeal is whether the appellant was a licensee or a tenant and also incidentally the question whether the Court of Small Causes Bombay had jurisdiction to deal with the eviction petition in this case.
They filed ejectment proceedings against one 1060 Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain their tenant and obtained a decree.
It is stated that the appellant was a monthly tenant of the suit premises since about 2nd February 1965.
The agreement is described as an agreement of leave and licence  entered into between the respondent on the one hand and the appellant on the other wherein the respondent had been described as the licensor and the appellant had been described as the licensee  and the recitals therein recite that the licensor was seized and possessed of and was otherwise well entitled as the monthly tenant of the workshop premises situated at 231 Ripon Road Cooperative Building Bombay being the premises in dispute and whereas the licensee had approached the licensor to allow him to occupy and use the said premises for the purpose of carrying out his business of workshop for a period of five years and whereas the licensor had agreed to allow the licensee to use the premises under the said leave and licence of the licensor for a period of five years from 1st of September 1965 till 31st of August 1970 that agreement was being executed.
it was stated that the licensor gave and granted his leave and licence  to the licensee to use and occupy the said premises for the period of five years.
Clause 2 of the said agreement recites that the licensee had agreed to use the premises as above and merely for the purpose of workshop business.
It further goes on to state that the licensee shall not under any circumstances be allowed to use the premises for the residential purposes or any other purpose save and except specified therein.
The licensor was entitled to terminate the agreement earlier notwithstanding the fact that the period of the agreement might not have expired.
The said deposit was to be kept free of interest and the same was to be refunded to the 1061 licensee on the licensee surrendering possession of the said premises by removing himself and his belongings on the expiry of the period of the agreement or sooner termination or determination thereof after deducting all the dues if any for payment of compensation.
On or about 9th November 1970 the respondent herein filed an ejectment proceeding against the appellant under section 41 of the .
The respondent approached the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution.
It was a possible view.
NPV Appeal dismissed.
