549 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RANGANATHAN J.
A very interesting question comes up for consideration in this appeal.
It belonged to several co owners.
The firm and its partners arc hereinafter compendiously referred to as the tenants .
The first lease Ext.
1947 and related to Door No 2 Item No1 in Schedule A to the plaint.
The rent for the premises was Rs 150 per month.
The second lease deed Ext.
1947 relating to Door No 3 Item 2 in Schedule A to the plaint covered an area of 8700 sq.
In respect of item 2 the fair rent claimed was Rs326650 as against Rs200 pm payable under the lease deed.
There were appeals to the Court of Small Causes.
The order of the Rent Controller in respect of item 2 was also upheld.
The tenants filed revision petitions against the order of the Court of Small Causes but these were dismissed on 20111968.
It may be mentioned here that the tenant filed CS 87 of 1972 claiming protection under the Madras City Tenants  Protection Act but this suit and further appeals therefrom have been dismissed.
Turn 551 ing now to CS No 54 of 1969 which was disposed of along with CS No 87 of 72 by a common judgment dated 23101972 the contention urged on behalf of the tenants was that since the subject matter of the lease under exhibit P 1 was only a vacant site the Rent Controller had no juris diction to fix the fair rent in respect thereof and that therefore the claim in the suit for arrears of rent based on the Rent Controller s order in respect of the premises covered by exhibit P 1 had to fail.
After referring to the terms of the sale deed exhibit P 3 the superstructure constructed on the land was held to have been conveyed to the vendee under the sale deed dated 30 7 1953 and to have thus vested in the LIC.
However so far as item No 1 was concerned the Appellate Bench vacated the decree passed by the trial court.
It held that there was a valid tease between the quondam owners and the tenants under Exts.
P 1  P 2.
Having regard to the express recitals in exhibit P 3 the Appellate Bench held that it was impossible to hold that the build ings which admittedly belonged to the defendants and had been constructed by them on the vacant land taken on lease under exhibit P 1 ever were or could be the subject matter of the sale under exhibit p 3.
In view of this finding it was held that the Rent Controller had no jurisdiction to entertain the application for fixation of fair rent in respect of the property which was only a vacant piece of land.
In conse quence it was held the LIC could not maintain the suit for recovery of rent based on the order made by the statutory tribunal under the Rent Control Act and claim the difference between the so called fair rent and the contract rent.
OSA 62 of 1973 was therefore allowed to that extent.
After putting up the buildings he applied for determination of standard rent under the Bombay Rents Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act 1947.
571 For the reasons mentioned above we are of the opinion that the High Court reached the correct conclusion and that this appeal has to fail.
