ivil Misc.
Petition No 15001 of 1989.
AND IA No 1 of 1989 in SLP No 12288 of 1984.
From the Judgment and Order dated 2041984 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Appeal No 472 of 1976.
K Mahadeva Reddy Ms Manjul Gupta TVSN Chari and A Subba Rao for the Petitioner.
K Ram Kumar SA Ahmed Tanweer Abdul and Mohan Pandey for the Respondents.
The following Order of the Court was delivered 540 The special leave petition under Article 136 of the Constitution is directed against the affirming judgment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in a suit for title and injunction.
In view of the fact that a petition of compromise in respect of the entire subject matter of litigation has been filed in this Court it is unnecessary to refer to the facts leading to the litigation.
We shall therefore confine the discussion to matters pertinent to the compromise.
Subbamma adopted one KV Seshiah.
Through the first wife he had a son born to him by name Sudarshan Gupta and through the second another son by name Anand Babu.
In February 1985 during the pendency of the special leave petition the adoptive mother died.
Sudarshan and Anand Babu led claim to the entire property of Subbamma exclusively to each of them under two different wills said to be by subbamma and each contended that the other will was a forged one.
The terms of the compromise stipulated payment of Rs 1 lakh by the father to each of his two sons in lieu of relinquishment of their interest.
One of the stipulation in the compromise deed which has admittedly been signed by the father and his two sons stipulates The petitioner has given to the second and third respondents the two sons an amount of Rs 1 lakh each and the second and third respondents have received the same In the face of such a statement in the compromise deed signed by the parties the second respondent had disputed the fact of payment and has in the meantime alienated about 81 acres of property which constitutes the subject matter of dispute to third parties.
The alienees 541 have now been brought on record unders order of this Court.
We have heard counsel for the original parties as also the alienees.
The alienations are for about a purported consideration of Rs 4 lakhs.
Admittedly the transfers are pendente lite.
In fact if the compromise is valid and binding the alienor respondent No 2 had no interest in the property to part with in view of the stipulation in the compromise that on receipt of Rs 1 lakh he relinquished his entire interest in the property.
The alienees have made an attempt to hold out that there were agreements for sale prior to the compromise for which there is no acceptable evidence.
Counsel for the alienees has taken the stand that the said alienations are valid and the transferees have become owners of the property and has even maintained that there have been improvements of the property by the alienees.
This amount shall be deposited in the Registry of this Court within the time indicated and Sudarshan Gupta shall be free to withdraw the amount.
Rs 77124 being the amount paid by the alienees before the Sub Registrar in respect of the sale deeds shall be deposited within the same period in the Trial Court and the alienees of the different sale deeds would be entitled to withdraw the amounts on the basis of the record made by the Sub Registrar on each of the sale deeds.
The alienees have no right created under the alleged sale deeds.
If necessary the Trial Court may appoint a Commissioner and take police help for executing this order and such cost shall ultimately be borne by the defaulting alienees but may initially be met by Seshiah.
