for the sake of convenience we refer to the facts mentioned in civil appeal no of 2008 arising out of s l p c no 15729 of 2008 filed by j mitra co pvt ltd.
quite often the commencement of an act is postponed to some specified future date or to such date as the appropriate government may by notification in the official gazette appoint.
act1970 as amended by the patents amendment act1999 w e f 26 3 99.
span diagnostics limited respondent no 3 herein is a public limited company established in 1972 to indigenously develop and manufacture a comprehensive range of ready made diagnostic reagents made by clinical pathology laboratories.
3 appellant herein filed its application for grant of patent.
after scrutiny the said application stood notified by the patent office on 20 11 2004.
thus proceedings commenced before the controller of patents in the year 2000 when the appellant herein sought a patent of their device which was opposed by respondent no 3 in the year 2000 by then the patents amendment act1999 had amended the patents act1970 w e f 26 3 99 s 25 of the patents act1970 as amended by patents amendment act1999 dealt with opposition to a patent vides s 25 at that time appeals against decisions made by the controller pertaining to pre grant oppositions under s 25 were maintainable before the high court u s 1162 of the indian patents act1970.
1 at any time within four months from the date of advertisement of the acceptance of a complete specification under this act or within such further period not exceeding one month in the aggregate as the controller may allow on application made to him in the prescribed manner before the expiry of the four months aforesaid any person interested may give notice to the controller of opposition to the grant of the patent on any of the following grounds namely a that the applicant for the patent or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim i in any specification filed in pursuance of an application for a patent made in india on or after the 1st day of january1912 or ii in india or elsewhere in any other document provided that the ground specified in sub cl ii shall not be available where such publication does not constitute an anticipation of the invention by virtue of sub s 2 or sub s 3 of section 29 that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the applicant s claim and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the applicant s claim a that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.
but on no other ground.
2 where any such notice of opposition is duly given the controller shall notify the applicant and shall give to the applicant and the opponent an opportunity to be heard before deciding the case.
2 save as otherwise expressly provided in sub section 1an appeal shall lie to a high court from any decision order or direction of the controller under any of the following provisions that is to say section 15section 16section17section 18section.
60section 61section 63sub s 3 of section 69section 78section 84section 86s 883section 89section 93s 96 and s 97.
every appeal under this section shall be in writing and shall be made within three months from the date of the decision order or direction as the case may be of the controller or within such further time as the high court may in accordance with the rules made by it u s 158 allow.
a right of appeal was available to the aggrieved party against orders passed under s 25 the said appellate remedy was available by way of an appeal to the high court.
in 2002the legislature desired an amendment to the law and intended to create an appellate forum to hear appeals against orders passed by the controller consequently patents amendment.
act2002 was promulgated on 25 6 2002 however it was not brought into force immediately.
b has for at least ten years functioned as a registered patent agent and possesses a degree in engineering or technology or a masters degree in science from any university established under law for the time being in force or equivalent or c has for at least ten years been an advocate of a proven specialized experience in practicing law relating to patents and designs.
66sub s 3 of section 69section.
78sub ss 1 to 5 of section 84section 85section 88section 91s 92 and s 94.
every appeal under this section shall be in prescribed form and shall be verified in such manner as may be prescribed and shall be accompanied by a copy of the decision order or direction appealed against any by such fees as may be prescribed.
every appeal shall be made within three months from the date of the decision order or direction as the case may be of the controller or the central government or within such further time as the appellate board may in accordance with the rules made by it allow.
e that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the claim h that the patentee has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge i that in the case of a patent granted on convention application the application for patent was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country or in india by the patentee or a person from whom he derives title j that the complete specification does not disclose or wrongly mentions the source and geographical origin of biological material used for the invention k that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was anticipated.
b on receipt of such notice of opposition the controller shall by order in writing constitute a board to be known as the opposition board consisting of such officers as he may determine and refer such notice of opposition along with the documents to that board for examination and submission of its recommendations to the controller.
c every opposition board constituted under cl b shall conduct the examination in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed.
5 while passing an order under sub s 4 in respect of the ground mentioned in cl d or cl e of sub section.
2the controller shall not take into account any personal document or secret trial or secret use.
similarly under the patents amendment act2005appeal was restricted to the post grant opposition orders and that appeal lay before the appellate board and not to the high court.
the legislature intended to provide for only one statutory appeal to the appellate board but by not bringing s 61 into force till 2 4 07appeals filed during the interregnum as in this case became vulnerable and liable to be dismissed as misconceived as is contended by the appellant.
act2005 as the amended ss 116 and 117a were brought into force only vide notification dated 2 4 07 one more point needs to be noted.
according to the appellant with the change in s 25 brought about by patents amendment act2005a dichotomy was introduced in the patents act1970 according to the appellant that dichotomy was between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
according to the appellant this was a structural change in the principal act.
according to the appellant on 23 8 06 the controller rejected its pre grant opposition and on that day post grant opposition avenue was open to respondent no 3 vide s 252 according to the appellant under the amended s 25 on rejection of pre grant opposition it was open to respondent.
further according to the appellantpre grant opposition was filed by respondent no 3 under s 251 on 21 3 05 according to the appellant though the patents amendment act2005amended s 25 by enacting the amendment on 4 4 05 the said amendment was brought into force w e f 1 1 2005 and therefore it was open to respondent no 3 to challenge the grant of patent by invoking s 252 of the patents act1970 according to the appellant with the change in the structure of the act providing for only one statutory appeal and that too only against the order granting patent under s 254the appeal filed by respondent no 3 against pre grant opposition order was not maintainable on 19 10 06 by which time as stated above s 25 stood restructured providing for a dichotomy between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
and lastly it was argued on behalf respondent no 3 that the appellant had filed its application for grant of patent on 14 6 2000it was notified on 20 11 04however respondent no 3 had filed its pre grant opposition under s 251 on 21 3 05 when the patents amendment act2005 was not promulgated it was promulgated on 4 4 05 and therefore according to respondent no 3 its pre grant opposition filed on 21 3 05 was valid and proper as respondent no 3 could not have invoked s 252 proceedings on that day namely21 3 05 as the law stood enacted bringing in s 252 only on 4 4 05 in the peculiar circumstances of this case it was urged on behalf of respondent no 3 that no interference is called for by this court in this batch of civil appeals.
an act can not be said to commence or to be in force unless it is brought into operation by legislative enactment or by the exercise of authority by a delegate empowered to bring it into operation.
by reason of patents amendment act2005the kind of opposition available under the said 1970 act is different from what existed earlier.
act2005is that even after a patent is grantedpost grant opposition can be filed under s 25 2 for a period of one year.
therefore the legislature intended an appeal under section 117a2 to the appellate board from any decision order or direction of the controller inter alia under s 254 which refers to the power of the controller to maintain amend or revoke the patent.
no 29306would remain in the high court.
amendment act1999 against orders passed by the controller in pre grant opposition proceedings.
accordingly the two civil appeals filed by the appellant herein stand disposed of with no order as to costs.
