yakshagana is a form of ballet dance.
he was a director of the appellant institute.
on or about 18 6 1994he executed a will in favour of the respondent.
karanth expired on 9 12 1997 yakshagana ballet dance as developed by dr karanth was performed in new delhi on or about 18 9 2001 respondent filed a suit for declaration injunction and damages alleging violation of the copyright in respect of the said dance vested in her in terms of the said will stating that dr karanth developed a new distinctive dance drama troop or theatrical system which was named by him as yaksha ranga which in his own words mean creative extension of traditional yakshagana and thus the appellants infringed the copyright thereof by performing the same at new delhi without obtaining her prior permission.
ever since 1974 till now in my old age she has been serving me with exemplary devotion and sincerity.
and in this occasion i must also acknowledge with gratitude that she diligently cared and nursed my wife leela karanth during her prolonged illness till her last day.
and she has cared and looked after me also during my illness which at times had been quite serious enfeebling me for long period.
apart from this she has collected and edited all my stray writings from 1924 onwards up to date in eight sumptuous volumes which are being published by mangalore university.
for all these services i hereby declare that after my death copyrights in respect of all my literary works shall vest with smt.
and i have distributed all copper and bronze vessels and utensils among my children while leaving my former home suhasa keeping only bare essential and necessary things and articles.
15000 00 3 directing the defendants to pay to the plaintiff interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a from 18 9 2001 till now which is 95 00.
4 directing the defendants to pay future interest on rs 15000 at 15 p a till payment of the entire amount.
appellants in their written statement however denied and disputed any copyright of the said dance in dr karanth alleging that whatever work he had done was in the capacity of a director of the kendra with the assistance finance and staff provided by the organization of mahatma gandhi memorial college trust in respect whereof a committee was formed under him by the board of trustees.
it was furthermore contended that dr karanth was appointed as the president of the executive committee of yakshagana kendra for a period of three years by the appellant and while holding the said post only he expired.
by reason of a judgment and decree dated 14 11 2003the district judge udupi decreed the said suit declaring the plaintiff respondent as a person having the exclusive copyright in respect of seven prasangas and that she had acquired the same by reason of a will as a residuary legatee and the defendants appellants or their employees or agents were restrained from performing the said seven ballets or prasangas or any parts thereof in any manner as evolved distinctively by dr karanth.
appellants aggrieved thereby and dissatisfied therewith preferred an appeal before the karnataka high court which was marked as r f a no 271 of 2004.
by reason of the impugned judgment and order dated 5 12 2007the said appeal has been dismissed.
appellants are thus before us.
i the copyright in the literary work has been assigned by reason of the said will in favour of the respondent in terms of clause 12 of the will.
additions made in the form of the said dance including the prasangas fell within the purview of originality in respect whereof copyright could be claimed.
for the purposes of this clause communication through satellite or cable or any other means of simultaneous communication to more than one household or place of residence including residential rooms of any hotel or hostel shall be deemed to be communication to the public section 2 ffa defines the word composerin relation to a musical work to mean the person who composes the music regardless of whether he records it in any form of graphical notation.
a where the identity of the authors is disclosed as references to that author.
b where the identity of more authors than one is disclosed as references to the author who dies last from amongst such authors.
before adverting to the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties we may notice the issues framed in the suit which are i does plaintiff prove that late dr shivaramaji karanth had acquired copyright in respect of seven yakshagana prasangas and also in respect of yakshagana dramatic or theatrical form i e bhishma.
does the plaintiff prove that her right under the said will was infringed by the defendants.
the plaintiff therefore is entitled to copyright even in respect of the dramatic works namely the seven prasangas by virtue of bequest made in her favour in respect of copyrights and books.
broadly speaking a dramatic work may also come within the purview of literary work being a part of dramatic literature.
we however do not mean to suggest that any act of literary work will be outside the purview of the will dated 18 6 1994 our exercise in this behalf was only for the purpose of clarifying the provisions of the act with reference to the findings arrived at by the high court.
for the aforementioned reasons we agree with dr dhavan that paragraph 12 of the will namely residuary clause shall apply in the instant case apart from the areas which are otherwise covered by paragraph 11 of the will.
a declaratory decree therefore was passed.
we may notice at this stage that the form of injunction granted both by the learned trial judge as also by the high court in favour of the plaintiff respondent.
as far as the restraint order passed by the trial court by granting permanent injunction to the plaintiff is concerned the same is modified by ordering that if the appellants desire to stage any of the seven yakshagana prasangas in the manner and form as conceived in all respects viz.
costumes choreography and direction by dr karanth the appellants can do so only in accordance with the provisions of the copyrights act1957 in view of copyright in seven prasangas vesting with the plaintiff.
decree for injunction is an equitable relief.
the courts while passing a decree for permanent injunction would avoid multiplicity of proceedings.
for the said purpose it must be noticed as to what is a copyright and in respect of the matters the same can not be claimed or otherwise the same is lodged by conditions and subject to statutory limitation.
in r g anand vs m s delux films ors 1978.
4 scc 1181978 indlaw sc 294this court held thus on a careful consideration and elucidation of the various authorities and the case law on the subject discussed above the following propositions emerge 1 there can be no copyright in an idea subject matter themes plots or historical or legendary facts and violation of the copyright in such cases is confined to the form manner and arrangement and expression of the idea by the author of the copyrighted work.
3 one of the surest and the safest test to determine whether or not there has been a violation of copyright is to see if the reader spectator or the viewer after having read or seen both the works is clearly of the opinion and gets an unmistakable impression that the subsequent work appears to be a copy of the original.
a violation of copyright amounts to an act of piracy it must be proved by clear and cogent evidence after applying the various tests laid down by the case law discussed above.
it is manifest that unlike a stage play a film has a much broader prospective wider field and a bigger background where the defendants can by introducing a variety of incidents give a colour and complexion different from the manner in which the copyrighted work has expressed the idea.
even so if the viewer after seeing the film gets a totality of impression that the film is by and large a copy of the original play violation of the copyright may be said to be proved.
yet again in eastern book company ors vs d b modak anr 2008.
1 scc 12007 indlaw sc 1341this court held the copyright act is not concerned with the original idea but with the expression of thought.
copyright has nothing to do with originality or literary merit.
copyrighted material is that what is created by the author by his own skill labour and investment of capital maybe it is a derivative work which gives a flavour of creativity.
the copyright work which comes into being should be original in the sense that by virtue of selection coordination or arrangement of pre existing data contained in the work a work somewhat different in character is produced by the author.
the high court in our opinion should have clarified that the appellants can also take the statutory benefit of the provisions contained in clauses ai and l of sub section 1 of section 52 of the act.
section 52 of the act provides for certain acts which would not constitute an infringement of copyright.
similarly appellant being an educational institution if the dance is performed within the meaning of provisions of clause i of sub section 1 of section 52 of the act strictly the order of injunction shall not apply thereto also.
