the respondent No. i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
various sentences were passed against them by the additional sessions judge visakhapatnam who presided over the court.
the prosecution case in so far as it is material for the decision of this appeal is as follows.
the aeco was appointed managing agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
the aeco on the other band always had a managing director first of whom was d l n raju.
the aeco as managing agents of vesco had appointed in the year 1939 one d v appala raju a trusted employee as its representative and as the secretary of vesco.
the respondent No 1.
he pressed his claim for appointment as secretary of vesco and representative of the managing agents at visakhapatnam and r h g raju appointed him to that post.
the respondent No 1 even after his appointment on two posts connected with vesco continued to work with the aeco also whose business had by then been confined only to that of managing agents of the four companies floated by d l n raju.
it is the prosecution case that as secretary of vesco and the resident representative of the managing agents the respondent No i was attending to the day to day affairs of vesco which included the receiving of all sums of money due to vesco spending money for the purpose of vesco attending to the appointment supervision and control of the staff of vesco purchasing materials required for the purpose of vesco and supervising over the accounts of vesco.
as secretary of vesco it was his duty to convene the meetings of the board of directors to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of vesco to convene meetings of the general body to prepare the managing agents report and the director 's report as also to see to the presentation of auditors report and the statement of accounts.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
there were no complaints about the management of the affairs of vesco or the aeco till the end of 1946 or the beginning of 1947.
of which the respondent No i was a director.
the approver who was originally an accounts clerk with the aeco was it may be mentioned appointed a cashier in vesco in 1946 at the instance of the respondent No i and was thus beholden to him.
the conspiracy is said to have been hatched in the year 1947 and falsification of accounts and misappropriation of funds of vesco went on till the end of the accounting year.
after the death of r k n g raju it was discovered that the aeco was indebted to many concerns which were under its managing agency the liability being shown either as that of aeco or that of r k n g raju personally.
this amount was however paid by the aeco from the funds of vesco.
he was also told that apart from signing important papers which may be sent to him by the respondent No i from time to time to manchili or wherever be might be would have no work to do.
he agreed and was elected managing director of aeco in the middle of 1948.
amounts which had been misappropriated used to be posted therein though in fact no orders were placed for any material.
apparently subba raju was fully satisfied with this and other explanations and therefore he appointed one c section raju who was the manager of andhra cements to supervise over the affairs of vesco apparently because of this a new method of misappropriation was adopted by the respondents by starting in the vesco account books an account called suspense account.
amounts which were misappropriated used to find their way in this account.
subba raju was not satisfied with the nature of supervision exercised by c section raju over the affairs of vesco because he used to look only at the cash book entries of the days on which he paid visits to vesco 's office to which he used to go with previous intimation.
because of all these things he had c section raju replaced towards the end of the year 1951 by one subbaramayya a retired finance officer from the madras electricity board both as a director of andhra cements and as a supervisor over the accounts of vesco.
there was a considerable uproar at that meeting because the respondent No 1 said that the auditor 's report had not been received.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
as already stated the additional sessions judge convicted both the respondents the respondent No i in respect of each head of the offences with which he was charged and the respondent No 2 in respect only of the offences of conspiracy and misappropriation.
the high court set aside the conviction of the respondents on a number of grounds.
in the first place according to the high court joint trial of two or more persons in respect of different offences cornmitted by each of them is illegal and that here as they were charged with having committed offences under section 120 b section 409 section 477 a and section 476467 i p c they could not be tried jointly.
next according to the high court even if section 239 is applicable its provisions are subject to those of section 234 and as such the trial being for more than three offences was impermissible.
then according to the high court offences under.
further according to the high court where a conspiracy has yielded its fruits the conspirators can be charged with the actual offences committed and not with conspiracy to commit those offences.
in so far as the respondent No 2 is concerned the high court has held that since he was charged with a specific offence under s 409 i p c he could not be convicted of mere abetment of an offence.
the approver 's evidence was held by the high court to be inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal.
the high court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the evidence act.
the high court has further stated that inadmissible evidence was taken on record by the additional sessions judge namely account books of billimoria brothers maintained in gujrati and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing the prosecution to use those account books for establishing absence of entries with regard to certain payments alleged in the vesco books to have been made to them.
finally the high court held that the examination of the respondent under section 342 of the code was unfair for a number of reasons and that the additional sessions judge had failed to perform an important duty in that he did not call the attention of the respondents to the provisions of section 342 which enable an accused person to give evidence in his own behalf.
the points which he urged are briefly these 1 that there was a misjoinder of charges and persons in that the various provisions of section 239 were clubbed together and an omnibus charge of conspiracy was framed which on its face was one likely to embarrass the respondents and make their task of defending themselves difficult.
the evidence of the approver was inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal that in any case it is unreliable was so found even by the sessions judge and must therefore be rejected.
if the evidence of the approver is left out the remaining evidence would be inadequate to sustain the prosecution case.
we shall deal with mr bhimasankaram 's contentions in the order in which we have set them out.
but certain objections have been taken to it with which we will deal at the appropriate place.
the third charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
ramana made false entries on seven different dates in the account books between september 19 1947 and march 18 1952 and thus committed an offence under section 477 a i p c the fourth charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
mr bhimasankaram supports the reason given by the high court for coming to the conclusion that there was a misjoinder of charges.
the main reasons upon which the conclusion of the high court is based are firstly that there could be no clubbing together of the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 and secondly that the respondents were charged with more than three offences of the same kind and that this was in contravention of section 239 c. in coming to the conclusion that the provisions of various clauses of section 239 can not be applied cumulatively the high court has relied upon the decision in re vankavalapati gopala rao 1956 airandhra 21.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
if such a combination is permissible all persons accused of offences described in cls.
226 to 231 deal with the power of the court with regard to framing and altering charges and the procedure to be adopted at the trial where a charge is found to be defective or there is no charge or where a new charge is to be framed.
section 233 provides that for every distinct offence of which any person is accused there shall be a separate charge.
1 deals with the trial of a person for offences of the same kind not exceeding three committed within the space of 12 months from the first to the last of such offences and section 231 2 what is meant by the expression offences of the same kind.
thus under this provision if the connection between the various offences is established the limitations placed by section 2341 both as regards the number and the period during which the offences are alleged to have been committed will not apply.
then we come to section 236 which provides that if a single act or series of acts is of such a nature that it is doubtful which of several offences the facts which can be proved will constitute the accused may be charged with having committed all or any of such offences and further provides that any number of such charges may be tried together.
similarly if the second respondent were alone tried on the second charge his trial would not have been open to any objection if the allegation were that the offences were so connected together as to form the same transaction.
here however we have a case where the prosecution alleges that there was additionally a conspiracy to which apart from the two respondents the approver and some other persons were parties and where in both the respondents were tried together.
the only provision in the code which permits the joint trial of more than one person is section 239 and what we have to see is whether under that provision the two respondents could have been jointly tried for the offences with which they were charged.
let us therefore examine closely the provisions of section 239.
it will be useful to set out the provisions of that section which run thus this first thing to be noticed is that section 239 does not read as if its various clauses can be applied only alternatively.
the concluding portion of section 239 shows that the provisions contained in the former part of chapter xix shall as far as may be apply to the charges framed with the aid of section 239.
obviously section 233 does not override the provisions of section 239.
section 234 can not also be regarded as an overriding provision because reading it that way will lead to the clear result that whereas several accused persons can be charged at the same trial with any number of different offences committed by them in the course of the same transaction they can not be tried also for offences of the same kind exceeding three in number and committed beyond a space of 12 months from the first to the last.
again as already stated section 2341 does not override the provisions of section 2351 which permits trial of a person for more offences than one committed during any period provided they are so connected together as to form one transaction.
now since section 2341 can not be properly read a overriding section 2351 there is no valid reason for construing it as overriding the provisions of section 239 either.
there are also other reasons which point to this conclusion which we will set out while considering the argument advanced by mr bhimasankaram.
bhimasankaram contended that s 239 must be read at least subject to sections 2341 and 2351 on the ground.
thus he points out that where several persons are accused of more offences than one of the same kind committed by them jointly within a period of 12 months the number of offences for which they could be tried can not exceed three.
in this connection he relied upon the words within the meaning of section 224 occurring in cl.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
in our opinion the words within the meaning of section 234 indicate that what was meant by the words offence of the same kind persons accused of more offences than one of the same kind not exceeding three in numberor may have used the words person accused of more than one offence of the same kind to the extent permissible under section 234.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
it was contended by mr chari that the expression former part would apply to the first sub division of chapter xix which deals with the form and content of the charges and the powers of the court with regard to the absence of charge and alteration of charge.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
on a plain construction of the provisions of section 239 therefore it is open to the court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law the provisions of sections 233 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
the decision of the allahabad high court in t r mukherji 's case il is directly in point and is clearly to the effect that the different clauses of section 239 are mutually exclusive in the sense that it is not possible to combine the provisions of two or more clauses in any one case and to try jointly several persons partly by applying the provisions of one clause and partly by applying those of another or other clauses.
a large number of decisions of the different high courts and one of the privy council have been considered in this case.
no doubt as has been rightly pointed out in this case separate trial is the normal rule and joint trial is an exception.
where however several offences are alleged to have been committed by several accused persons it may be more reasonable to follow the normal rule of separate trials.
but we find it difficult to appreciate what seems to be the view of the high court that because each clause of section 239 enunciates a separate principle those principles are so to speak mutually exclusive and can not be cumulatively resorted to for trying several persons jointly in respect of several offences even though they form part of the same transaction.
a and b. a says that persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction may be charged and tried together.
b says that persons accused of an offence and persons accused of abetment or of an attempt to commit such offence may also be charged and tried together.
a and c c provides that persons accused of more than one offence of the same kind within the meaning of section 234 committed by them jointly within the period of twelve months could also be charged and tried together.
each of them has committed two offences and each of them participated in the same offence.
then take section a and d d persons accused of different offences committed in the course of the same transaction can be tried together.
d yet the transaction in which the offences were committed is the same and there is a close association amongst the persons who have committed the different offences.
the same offence committed by all of them is that under section 147 and all of them can be tried jointly in respect of that offence under cl.
d by itself all of them can be tried jointly for the different offences committed by each of them in the course of the same transaction and if cl.
this means that the trial for an offence under section 147 will have to be separated from the trial for the different offences committed by them.
it is difficult to appreciate what purpose would be served by separating the trial for the same offence from the trial for different offences.
the high court however held that to be a kind of case which fell under section 2351 of the code and that since that was so the provisions of section 236 were excluded.
the precise point which we have to consider here did not fall for consideration in that case i e whether the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 could be used together or not.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
there nine persons were jointly tried for an offence under section 5 1 c and d of the prevention of corruption act 1947 and section 109 i p c read with s 420 section 466 and section 467 i p c and all except one for offences under sections 420 467471 i p c some of them were also charged with separate offences under some of these provisions.
but on appeal by the state of andhra pradesh to this court this court held that there was no misjoinder of charges that the introduction of a large number of charges spread over a long period was a question of propriety and that it should be left to the judge or the magistrate trying the case to adopt the course which he thought to be appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case.
in so far as some of the charges were concerned this court pointed out that the special judge who was to try the case should consider splitting them up so that the accused persons would not be prejudiced in answering the charges and defending themselves.
it is true that the question of reading the various clauses cumulatively did not specifically arise for decision in that case but the high court had held that the first charge was an omnibus charge containing as many as 203 offences and that it was in direct violation of sections 234 235 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure.
dealing with this matter this court held at p 200 no doubt sub s 1 of section 234 provides that not more than three offences of the same kind committed by an accused person within the space of 12 months can be tried at the same trial.
but then section 235 1 provides that if in any one series of acts so connected together as to form the same transaction more offences than one are committed by the same person he may be charged with and tried at one trial for every such offence.
no doubt the offence mentioned in charge No i is alleged to have been committed not by just one person but by all the accused and the question is whether all these persons can be jointly tried in respect of all these offences.
this section provides that the following persons may be charged and tried together namely 1 persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction 2 persons accused of abetment or an attempt to commit such an offence 3 persons accused of different offences committed in the course of the same transaction.
clearly therefore all the accused persons could be tried together in respect of all the offences now comprised in charge No 1.
this court has thus clearly read the provisions of the various clauses cumulatively and we see no reason to read them differently.
that again was a matter which came before the high court before conviction and not after the trial was over.
but in the case before us no objection was taken to multiplicity or misjoinder of charges before the learned additional sessions judge and it was only in the high court that the point was raised.
in such circumstances what the court has to consider is whether prejudice has in fact been caused to the accused by reason of the multiplicity of charges or misjoinder if any of the charges.
merely because the accused persons are charged with a large number of offences and convicted at the trial the conviction can not be set aside by the appellate court unless it in fact came to the conclusion that the accused persons were embarrassed in their defence with the result that there was a failure of injustice.
for all these reasons we can not accept the argument of learned counsel on the ground of misjoinder of charges and multiplicity of charges.
bhimasankaram supporting the view taken by the high court then contends that it is not permissible to frame a charge of conspiracy when the matter has proceeded beyond the stage of conspiracy and that in pursuance of it offences have actually been committed.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
this decision is sufficient to dispose of the point under consideration.
that the several instances of cheating being alleged to be in pursuance of that conspiracy were parts of the same transaction and therefore the joint trial of the accused persons for the different offences was not vitiated.
no doubt there is no discussion there as to the question whether the various clauses of section 239 could be combined or as to the impact of the provisions of section 233 to 236 on those of section 239.
in that case the impact of section 120 b i p c on sections 233 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure was considered by this court and this court observed.
objection was taken very seriously by mr bhimasankaram to the charge of conspiracy framed in this case.
the offence of conspiracy is an entirely independent offence and though other offences are committed in pursuance of the conspiracy the liability of the conspirators for the conspiracy itself can not disappear.
section 120 b provides that whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death imprisonment for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards shall be punishable in the same manner as if he has abetted such offence unless there was an express provision in the code for the punishment of such conspiracy.
but what the amendment did was to make that conspiracy itself punishable.
no doubt as already stated where offences for committing which a conspiracy was entered into have actually been committed it may not in the particular circumstances of a case be desirable to charge the offender both with the conspiracy and the offences committed in pursuance of that conspiracy.
as we are remanding the appeal to the high court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the evidence of the approver.
his second contention was that reference was made to a number of documents in some of these questions and those documents were not made available to the respondents for answering those questions.
in support of his first contention he referred to questions nos 4 8 9 10 and 20 put to the respondent No i and question No 12 put to the respondent No 2 and tried to show that those questions rolled up a large number of separate questions and that it could not have been possible for the respondents to give any rational answers to those questions.
we have read the questions and so also the answers.
while we are disposed to agree with learned counsel that the questions embrace a number of matters and that it would have been better if those matters had been made the subjects of separate questions the answers given by the respondents clearly show that they understood the questions and wherever possible they have given complete answers to those questions.
a pointed reference was made to question.
nor again do we think that there is any substance in the complaint made that the respondents had no opportunity of referring to the documents to which reference has been made in certain questions.
the irrelevant evidence to which mr bhimasankaram referred was certain account books.
they also show payment case was that the payments which were entered in the account of vesco do not find a place in the account books of the corresponding firms or authorities because they were never made by vesco.
the high court has pointed out that the main evidence on which the prosecution rests its case that the amount represented by the entries against these various firms were in.
fact misappropriated by the respondents in the circumstance that there are no corresponding entries in the account books of those firms.
the argument before the high court was and before us is that the absence of an entry can not of electricity duty to government.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
what it does is to make entries in books of account regularly kept in the course of business relevant in all proceedings in a court of law.
therefore when a sues b for a sum of money it is open to him to put his account books in evidence provided they are regularly kept in the course of business and show by reference to them that the amount claimed by him is debited against b the entry though made by a in his own account books and though it is in his own favour is a piece of evidence which the court may take into consideration for the purpose of determining whether the amount referred to therein was in fact paid by a to b the entry by itself is of no help to a in his claim against b but it can be considered by the court along with the evidence of a for drawing the conclusion that the amount was paid by a to b to this limited extent entries in the account books are relevant and can be proved.
we therefore agree with the high court that the account books of the various concerns to whom payments are said to have been made by the respondents are not by themselves evidence of the fact that no payments were received by them.
for the purpose of showing that no amounts were received by the firms their account books would thus be as relevant as the vesco account books for the purpose of showing the contrary.
similarly there is section 5 of the evidence act which reads thus it is the case of the prosecution that the alleged payments were never made by vesco to the various firms.
both the sets of facts are relevant that is non receipt of the amounts by the firms and non existence of entries in their account books pertaining to those amounts.
the best evidence to prove the latter set of facts consists of the account books of the firms themselves.
it is under these provisions that the account books of the firms must be held to be relevant.
the prosecution case is that these receipts are forged documents and the entries in the account books of vesco are false.
those account books are in gujrati and he stated in his evidence that the accounts were regularly kept and that there were no entries in them corresponding to the entries in the vesco accounts.
