the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
we are directly concerned with the issue of compensation which is dealt with as earlier stated in chapter v of the act.
section 26 has great relevance as it lays down the method of arriving at the gross asset and section 27 has like significance as it focuses on the manner in which the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting certain items from the gross asset of the estate.
section 28 states how the amount of compensation is to be determined and the methodology of payment.
the act also provides for appeal second appeal and revision the last being to the high court and the earlier ones being to the collector and a board constituted under section 22.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit 's points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
it is this court which by its order dated 10 4 1969 in civil revisions 201 202 and 203 of 1968 conferred new jurisdiction on the compensation officer to deal freshly with the case and therefore notwithstanding anything contained in the act the compensation has to be calculated according to the directions given by the court 2 the court was fully aware of the statutory provision in section 262.
b v of the act but in spite of it the direction was that the divisional forest officer should make the appraisement.
there was no direction that this report of the d f o should be further subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests.
the calculation made by the chief conservator of forests therefore has no statutory force but could be just a piece of evidence.
but what has happened here is that the chief conservator himself made the appraisement without referring to the appraisement made by the d f o and as such the appraisement made by the chief conservator is invalid.
8 compensation money should be so calculated that the purchasing power of the amount of compensation to be paid on the date of actual payment will not be less than its purchasing power on the date of vesting and 9 interest should be calculated at not less than 12 per annum from the date of vesting till payment.
moreover the high court has rightly pointed out that the validity of section 373 of the act which fixes a small rate of interest on the compensation amount has been upheld by the supreme court in gajapati narayan 's case.
this provision directly demolishes the contention of the appellant.
the argument is that for certain reasons the appellant could not derive and actual income from the forests taken over by the state from him and therefore there was no income tax payable on any agricultural income from these forests.
the contention is that therefore in arriving at the next income the deduction of income tax is not permissible.
here again the flaw in the submission consists in mis reading section 27 of the act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum which was payable by the intermediary as income tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year.
if a notional income on the assumed basis can be used for fixing compensation a notional income tax can be calculated and deducted.
v gross income from forests calculated on the basis of the appraisement made of annual yield of the forests on the date of vesting by a forest officer subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests such forest officer being not below the rank of a divisional forest officer to be appointed in this behalf by the state government.
those officers ascertain the income from the forest concerned and the figure so fixed is subject to the approval of the c c f chief conservator of forests presumably the top expert in the department.
the section is clear that the gross income from forests must be calculated on the basis of appraisal of the annual yield on the date of vesting firstly by a forest officer and secondly by the chief conservator of forests screening it and approving it.
later revision petition were filed before the high court and g k misra j set aside the order disallowing the inclusion of the income from forests for ascertainment of compensation and directed a remand to the compensation officer.
it is open to the petitioners to give evidence that after the date of vesting many of the trees and forest produce have been removed.
the divisional forest officer who would make the appraisement will be examined as a witness for the compensation officer and would be subjected to cross examination.
no other evidence would be permissible as the state has not chosen to give any other evidence.
the use of the expression divisional forest officers is erroneous although forest officers are appointed from among divisional forest officers.
equally clearly a slight error has crept into the judge 's order because he does not make any reference specifically to the statutory requirement of approval of the chief conservator of forests of the appraisement made by the forest officer.
the compensation officer accepted the report of the chief conservator and made the statutory calculation on that date.
indeed there was a fundamental difference in the basis adopted by the forest officer and the chief conservator in the matter of assessing the income of the forests in question.
we need not go into this detail except for the purpose of noticing that what the chief conservator did was not to approve wholly or in a modified form what the forest officer did but to make his own appraisal independently and without reference to the report of the statutory functionary viz the forest officer.
