while the learned additional sessions judge made a reference to the high court for confirmation of death sentence under section 366 cr.
the criminal reference and the criminal appeal were heard by a division bench of rajasthan high court.
in the opinion of one learned judge the circumstantial evidence on which rests the prosecution case was not sufficient to record a finding of guilty against the appellant on any of the charges framed against him.
in the opinion of the other learned judge the prosecution evidence was sufficient to sustain the conviction as recorded by the trial court though the case was not one of those rarest of rare cases as would warrant death sentence being awarded to the appellant.
p c the third learned judge has on an independent appreciation of evidence recorded his own findings upholding the conviction of the accused on both the charges framed against him and thus agreeing with one of the two learned judges constituting the division bench in conclusion.
the accused appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.
the vaginal injuries clotted blood and injuries to post fornix were indica tive of rape having been committed on the victim.
the clothes were removed from the dead body and seized.
the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 on suspicion.
the clothes on his person did not have any blood or seminal stains.
the prosecution examined 21 witnesses in all.
the pieces of circumstantial evidence which have been found proved and held as forging an incriminating chain against the accused are as under i last seen together ii abnormal conduct of the accused iii recovery of underwear and baniyan which was found to be stained with semen and blood group b which is also the blood group of the deceased iv false plea of alibi and v accused absconding since the date of offence.
we would proceed to examine each of the pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence so as to find out if each one of the circumstantial evidence is proved individually and whether collectively it forges such a chain of incriminating circumstances as would fasten the guilt on the accused beyond by shadow of reasonable doubt.
on asking a few questions by way of preliminary examination the learned trial judge found that the witness could answer some of the questions.
it is this testimony which has been relied upon by the trial court as also by the high court as the evidence of last seen together.
the witness is a child witness of very tender age and examined in the court almost a year after the date of the incident.
there is something mysterious about the discovery of shalu as a witness to the incident.
the third girl who was with s and shalu has not been examined either in the court or during investigation.
the statement of shahu was recorded during investigation on 25 3 1991 i e about six days after the date of incident.
the fact remains that the testimony of shalu pw 7 aged 4 years even if taken at its face value does not constitute such a circumstance as to draw an incriminating inference against the accused and connect him with the crime.
he did not remember and was therefore not in a position to tell how many number of times the accused subhash was called for interrogation or making enquiries.
there is not investigation directed towards finding out and no evidence worth its name collected and adduced in the court to show that the underwear and baniyan were of the accused.
one of the circumstan tial evidence relied on was that a human blood stain of b group was found on the accused 's pant which blood group was also of the deceased.
another circumstantial evidence relied on was that a stain of semen was found on the under pant of the accused.
in the present case the age of the accused was about 21 years at the time of the incident.
on his arrest he was subjected to medical examination and found to be a potent and capable person.
presence of semen stain on underwear assuming that the underwear belonged to the accused though there is no evidence adduced in this regard is not by itself an incriminating piece of evidence connecting the accused with the crime in question.
so also the discov ery of b group blood stain on the underwear can not be treated as an incrimi nating piece of evidence against the accused connecting him with the crime because there is no evidence that the underwear belonged to the accused and further the possiblity of the underwear being stained with the blood of the person to whom it belonged or the accused if he was wearing it has not been ruled out.
the high court has gone completely amiss in holding that a plea of alibi was taken by the accused and that was found to be false.
the accused has not stated during his statement under section 313 cr.
p c and nowhere suggested during cross examination of prosecution witnesses that at the time of the incident he was at a place wherefrom he could not have reached the place of the offence on the date and at the time of its commission.
although the dead body of the victim was found on the outskirts of the village however there is no material available on record to fix the place and the likely time at which rape was committed on s and then she was murdered.
what is being treated as the plea of alibi by the trial court and the high court is this.
the proprietor of the cinema hall was examined to state that on 18th and 19th march the accused had taken leave from his job and during those days he was not present on duty.
this piece of evidence was put to the accused during his statement under section 313 cr.
p c is to afford the accused personally an opportunity of explaining any incriminating circumstance so appearing in evidence against him.
in law this term is used to express that defence in a criminal prosecution where the party accused in order to prove that he could not have committed the crime charged against him offers evidence that he was in a different place at that time.
according to harish chand sharma the accused was arrested on 3 4 1991 vide exbt.
from village kotputli where the incident had taken place.
secondly harish chand sharma himself states that between 19 3 1991 and 25 3 1991 the ac cused was called several times at the police station and on 21 3 1991 itself he was called twice in a day.
kalu ram pw5 accompanied by a friend santosh pw9 had gone to see a movie in cinema talkies heera moti two days after the date of the incident and there the accused was present on his duty.
there is no evidence adduced by the prosecution to hold that soon after the date of the offence the accused was found missing from his residence or the place of his employment and was not available though searched at the place or places where normally he ought to have been.
hence it could not have been held that the accused was absconding.
thus none of the pieces of evidence relied on as incriminating by the trial court and the high court can be treated as incriminating pieces of circumstantial evidence against the accused.
in shankarlal gyarasilal dixit 's case 1980 indlaw sc 47 supra this court cautioned human nature is too willing when faced with brutal crimes to spin stories out of strong suspicions.
the trial court and the high court have proceeded on an assumption of availability of five pieces forging links in the chain of circumstantial evi dence out of which we have found as stated hereinabove four of the alleged circumstances not to be pieces of incriminating circumstantial evidence at all.
we are left with circumstance No 3 only i e recovery of underwear and baniyan stained with semen and human blood group b which alone in the fact and circumstances of the case discussed hereinabove can not form basis of conviction of the accused appellant for the offence charged.
