the company was to export products of alloy steel.
it was also found that appellant had declared goods exported as alloy steel whereas after the tests conducted by central revenue control laboratory they were found to be other than alloy steeli e. non alloy.
the consul economicconsulate general of india at dubai allegedly confirmed the existence of a parallel set of export invoices.
a letters patent appeal concededly which was not maintainable was filed thereagainst which was dismissed by reason of the impugned judgment.
although before the high court the principal ground urged on behalf of appellant in questioning the legality or validity of the order of detention was unexplained delay in passing the order of detention which did not find favour with the high court.
before us several other grounds viz. non placement of vital material documents before the detaining authority non supply of documents relied on or referred to in the order of detention as also non application of mind on the part of the detaining authority had been raised.
a report in relation to overseas inquiry was received on 12 5 2004 on 25 6 2004 proposal of detention was sent which was approved on 2 12 2004 on.
the order of detention was passed on 5 4 2005.
they initiated various civil proceedings from time to time obtained various interim orders and thus delay in passing the order of detention can not be said to have not been explained.
learned counsel would contend that keeping in view the nature and magnitude of an offence under cofeposa a distinction must be made between an order of detention passed under cofeposa vis a vis other acts as per the law laid down by this court in rajendrakumar natvarlal shah v state of gujarat and others 1988 3 scc 153 1988 indlaw sc 71 and in that view of the matter the high court must be held to have arrived at a correct decision.
but we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2 12 2004the order of detention was passed after four months.
the said documents in our opinion were material.
it is no doubt true that if the delay is sufficiently explained the same would not be a ground for quashing an order of detention under cofeposa but as in this case a major part of delay remains unexplained.
the question as regard delay in issuing the order of detention has been held to be a valid ground for quashing an order of detention by this court in t d abdul rahman v state of kerala and others air 1990 sc 225 1989 indlaw sc 205 stating the conspectus of the above decisions can be summarised thus the question whether the prejudicial activities of a person necessitating to pass an order of detention is proximate to the time when the order is made or the live link between the prejudicial activities and the purpose of detention is snapped depends on the facts and circumstances of each case.
similarly when there is unsatisfactory and unexplained delay between the date of order of detention and the date of securing the arrest of the detenu such a delay would throw considerable doubt on the genuineness of the subjective satisfaction of the detaining authority leading to a legitimate inference that the detaining authority was not really and genuinely satisfied as regards the necessity for detaining the detenu with a view to preventing him from acting in a prejudicial manner.
it would be reasonable to assume that if the district magistrate of burdwan was really and genuinely satisfied after proper application of mind to the materials before him that it was necessary to detain the petitioner with a view to preventing him from acting in a prejudicial manner he would have acted with greater promptitude both in making the order of detention as also in securing the arrest of the petitioner and the petitioner would not have been allowed to remain at large for such a long period of time to carry on his nefarious activities.
in the instant case we have noticed hereinbefore that the authorities of dri themselves categorically stated that the activities of appellant after 11 10 2003 were not in question and in fact all the bank accounts were defreezed.
although learned additional solicitor general may be correct in his submissions that ordinarily we should not exercise our discretionary jurisdiction u art 136 of the constitution of india by allowing appellant to raise new grounds but in our opinion we may have to do so as an order of detention may have to be considered from a different angle.
in a case of this nature we do not think in view of the admitted facts that we would not permit appellant to raise the said questions.
so far as the question of non placement of material documents before the detaining authority is concerned we may notice the following dates i by a letter dated 5 7 2002the authorities of dri stated that appellant stood exonerated for earlier years after detailed examination.
by a letter dated 20 12 2004the authorities of dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny and by letters dated 28 2 2005 and 7 3 2005the bank accounts of appellant were defreezed.
v by orders dated 31 8 2004 and 28 10 2004the civil judge directed release of documents to appellant.
by an order dated 18 11 2004the civil court issued contempt notice to the authorities of dri for non release of documents and the authorities of dri made a statement before the court that the documents are being returned.
we have noticed hereinbefore that learned additional solicitor general contended that appellant obstructed the proceedings by initiating various civil litigations.
on their own showing respondents admit that they were relevant documents.
a division bench of this court in k s nagamuthu v state of tamil nadu ors 2005 9 scale 534 2005 indlaw sc 748 struck down an order of detention on the ground that the relevant material had been withheld from the detaining authority which in that case was a letter of the detenu retracting from confession made by him.
in p saravanan v state of t n and others 2001 10 scc 212it was stated when we went through the grounds of detention enumerated by the detaining authority we noticed that there is no escape from the conclusion that the subjective satisfaction arrived at by the detaining authority was the cumulative result of all the grounds mentioned therein.
in ahamed nassar v state of tamil nadu and others 1999 8 scc 473 1999 indlaw sc 778this court opined the question is not whether the second part of the contents of those letters was relevant or not but whether they were placed before the detaining authority for his consideration.
it may be that the detaining authority might have come to the same conclusion as the sponsoring authority but its contents are relevant which could not be withheld by the sponsoring authority.
the letter dated 19 4 1999 reached the sponsoring authority and reached well within time for it being placed before the detaining authority.
the respondent authority was not right in not placing it as it contains not only what is already referred to in the bail application dated 1 4 1999 but something more.
the statements of appellant and prabhjot singh were noticed by the detaining authority.
the self inculpatory statements of appellant and that of prabhjot singh were said to have been taken off the file.
