the appellant No 2 kadubai is the mother of the appellant No 1 and both the appellants were residing in the same house in village palshi.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
whenever bhimabai went to her parental home she used to tell her parents that her husband and mother in law accused appellants were harassing her and used to occasionally beat her.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
the case of the prosecution futher is that in the evening of 15 september 1991 a person came from village palshi on a motorcycle and informed pw 1 tukaram that bhimabai was unwell.
pw 1 then immediately went to the house of the accused along with some of his relatives.
pw 1 tukaram lodged the fir of the incident at 7 00 p m on 16 september 1991 at p s chikalthana on the basis of which case crime No 144 of 1991 was registered against the appellants under sections 498 a 306 and 304 b ipc.
the learned sessions judge framed charges under sections 498 a 304 b read with section 34 ipc and section 306 read with section 34 ipc against both the appellants.
the learned sessions judge after consideration of the material on record acquitted the appellants of the charges under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but convicted them under section 304 b ipc and imposed a sentence of 7 years ri thereunder.
the specific case of the prosecution is that bhimabai ended her life by consuming poison because of harassment caused to her by the appellants for or in connection with demand of dowry.
he has deposed that in the marriage he had given rs 20000 as dowry.
whenever bhimabai came to her parental home she used to complain that for some domestic reasons she was being harassed.
when she had visited her parental home on the last occasion she had said that her husband appasaheb had asked her to bring rs 1000 1200 for domestic expenses and for purchasing manure as he had no sufficient money.
the witness has further deposed that on the date of incident a man came from village palshi on motorcycle and informed that he should immediately go there as bhimabai was not well.
he has admitted that it was appellant No 1 who had sent a person on motorcycle who had given information regarding bhimabai being unwell and that both the appellants were present at the time of her funeral.
he has deposed that on an earlier occasion he had gone along with pw 1 and some others to the house of appellant no 1 to persuade him not to harass bhimabai and to treat her well.
in his cross examination he has admitted that when he had gone to village palshi to talk with the appellants regarding the ill treatment being meted out to bhimabai there was no talk regarding monetary giving and taking.
she has stated in her examination in chief that bhimabai was being ill treated by the appellants and the reason for ill treatment was that they were demanding money to be brought from her parental home.
the last time bhimabai visited her parental home was on the occasion of the festival of nag panchami and she had complained that she was being ill treated and was sometimes given beating for bringing money from her parents.
in her cross examination pw 5 sumanbai has stated that after news about the condition of bhimabai was given by a man from village palshi she along with her husband and some other relations went there and noticed that bhimabai was lying dead in the house and froth was coming out of her mouth.
p c which was recorded very next day of the incident i e on 16 september 1991 she did not state that cause of ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
in his cross examination he admitted that he did not make detailed enquiries as to what was the cause of death and where the incident had taken place.
he has further deposed that bhimabai had come to his house about six months earlier and had said all was not well between her and her husband but she had not given any specific details.
the main witnesses regarding the alleged demand of money and also harassment and beating to bhimabai are her father and mother viz pw 1 tukaram and pw 5 sumanbai.
in his examination in chief pw 1 has said that whenever his daughter came to her parental home she used to complain that she was being subjected to harassment by the appellants on account of some domestic reasons and further that her husband appellant no 1 had told her that while coming back from her parental home she should bring rs 1000 1200 for expenses and for manure as he had no sufficient money.
pw 5 sumanbai has deposed that bhimabai was receiving ill treatment as a result of domestic cause and to a specific question put by the court as to what she meant by domestic cause she gave a reply that there was a demand for money for defraying expenses of manure etc.
p c which was recorded on the very next day of the death of bhimabai this witness did not state that the cause for ill treatment was a demand for money and a consequent beating.
the evidence on record does not indicate that the police had any reason to favour the accused and deliberately omitted to mention about the alleged demand of money while recording the statement of pw 5 sumanbai under section 161 cr.
the explanation appended to sub section 1 of section 304 b ipc says that dowry shall have the same meaning as in section 2 of dowry prohibition act 1961.
see union of india v garware nylons ltd air 1996.
sc 3509 1996 indlaw sc 2404 and chemicals and fibres of india v union of india air 1997.
the evidence adduced by the prosecution does not therefore show that any demand for dowry as defined in section 2 of the dowry prohibition act was made by the appellants as what was allegedly asked for was some money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
since an essential ingredient of section 304 b ipc viz demand for dowry is not established the conviction of the appellants can not be sustained.
