these appeals have been preferred from the judgment and order of the high court dated 25 11 2009 in writ petitions civil no 464572009.
the appellants challenge the acquisition of their agricultural lands by the state of uttar pradesh for the construction of the district jail of shahjahanpur.
the state of uttar pradesh vide its office memorandum dated 25 10 2004 constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the honourable minister of revenue to suggest its recommendations for transfer of prisons situated in the congested areas of various districts.
january2005the said committee recommended to the state government the shifting of the district jails from congested areas to outside the city limits within the district.
as per the schedule this shifting was to be done in two phases 1 st phase 1 district jail shahjahanpur 2 district jail azamgarh 3 district jail jaunpur and 4 district jail moradabad 2 nd phase 1 district jail badaun 2 district jail varanasi 3 district jail barielly and 4 district jail muzaffarnagar.
these recommendations were accepted by the state government vide the approval of the cabinet dated 7 12 2007 following this decision the director general of prisons administration and reformsuttar pradesh vide letter dated 04 06 2008requested the district magistrate shahjahanpur to send all the relevant records to the state government for publication of notification u ss 41 and 17 of the land acquisition act1894 hereinafter the act the land suggested for such acquisition by the divisional land utility committee was.
the state government explained that this was done in view of the pressing urgency in the matter of construction of the jails.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid notifications the appellants moved a writ petition before the high court u art 226 of the constitution of india.
2 scc 377 2008 indlaw sc 2494 having thus stated the high court dismissed the writ petition.
2 whether or not the state government was justified in dispensing with the inquiry which is mandated to be conducted under section 5a of the act especially when one year elapsed between the notifications u s 4 and the one u s 6 they further stated that the high court had erred insofar as it upheld the factum of urgency in the absence of a categorical finding an enquiry under section 5a would have been detrimental to public interest.
committee was formed matter was discussed at a leisurely pace at various levels and there is no material fact to justify the abridgement of the appellants right of raising an objection to acquisition and of a hearing under section 5a of the act.
this court is of the opinion that the concept of public purpose in land acquisition has to be viewed from an angle which is consistent with the concept of a welfare state.
any attempt by the state to acquire land by promoting a public purpose to benefit a particular group of people or to serve any particular interest at the cost of the interest of a large section of people especially of the common people defeats the very concept of public purpose.
even though the concept of public purpose was introduced by pre constitutional legislation its application must be consistent with the constitutional ethos and especially the chapter under fundamental rights and also the directive principles.
in construing the concept of public purpose the mandate of art 13 of the constitution that any pre constitutional law can not in any way take away or abridge rights conferred under part iii must be kept in mind.
by judicial interpretation the contents of these part iii rights are constantly expanded.
the meaning of public purpose in acquisition of land must be judged on the touchstone of this expanded view of part iii rights.
therefore the concept of public purpose on this broad horizon must also be read into the provisions of emergency power u s 17 with the consequential dispensation of right of hearing under section 5a of the said act.
while examining these questions of public importance the courts especially the higher courts cannot afford to act as mere umpires.
the same principle has been reiterated subsequently by a three judge bench of this court in state of maharashtra and anr vs b e billimoria and ors 2003 7 scc 336 2003 indlaw sc 618 in the context of ceiling law.
ltd and ors 2007.
8 scc 705 2007 indlaw sc 554wherein this court construed the status of a person 's right to property after deletion of art 191f from part iii by referring to various international covenants namely the declaration of human and civil rights this court held that even though right to property has ceased to be a fundamental right but it would however be given an express recognition as a legal right and also as a human right.
while discussing the ambit and extent of property right this court reiterated that expropriatory legislation must be given strict construction.
in the background of the aforesaid discussion this court proceeds to examine the scope of a person 's right under section 5a of the act.
in challenging the said acquisition it was argued that the person whose property is going to be taken away should be allowed a hearing on the principles of natural justice.
however the judges found that there was no such provision in the act.
in order to remedy this shortcoming in the act of 1894an amendment by way of incorporation of section 5a was introduced on 11th july1923 the statement of objects and reasons for the said amendment is as follows the land acquisition act i of 1894 does not provide that persons having an interest in land which it is proposed to acquire shall have the right of objecting to such acquisition nor is government bound to enquire into and consider any objections that may reach them.
the object of this bill is to provide that a local government shall not declare u s 6 of the act that any land is needed for a public purpose unless time has been allowed after the notification u s 4 for persons interested in the land to put in objections and for such objections to be considered by the local government.
the importance and scheme of section 5a was construed by this court in several cases.
a of the act.
the same view has been reiterated by another three judge bench decision of this court in munshi singh and ors.
2005 7 scc 627 2005 indlaw sc 578this court held that the right which is conferred under section 5a has to be read considering the provisions of article 300 a of the constitution and so construed the right under section 5a should be interpreted as being akin to a fundamental right.
in a recent judgment of this court in essco fabs 2008 indlaw sc 2494 supra2009 2 scc 377this court after considering previous judgments as also the provisions of s 17 of the act held whereas sub s 1 of s 17 deals with cases of urgencysub s 2 of the said section covers cases of sudden change in the channel of any navigable river or other unforeseen emergency.
but even in such cases i e cases of urgency or unforeseen emergencyenquiry contemplated by section 5 a can not ipso facto be dispensed with which is clear from sub s 4 of s 17 of the act.
