the order of the court was as follows.
in these matters relating to admission to professional courses in medicine engineering pharmacy nursing etc in educational institutions which are claimed to be minority educational institutions the petitioners have questioned the applicability of the scheme framed by this court in j p unni krishnan v state of a p 1993.
1 scc 645 1993 indlaw sc 1056.
i as well as the applicability of the rules and orders made by several state governments on the basis of the said decision.
by order dated october 71993 passed by the constitution bench three questions were referred for consideration by a larger bench.
in pursuance of the said order this bench has been constituted.
the claim of being a minority whether based on religion or language and the claim of being a minority educational institution put forward by the petitioners can not be pronounced upon without first ascertaining what the said expressions connote and signify.
since the process of selection of candidates for admission for the next academic session is to commence soon it is necessary to pass an interim order governing admission to the professional courses in minority educational institutions for the next academic session.
for admission in the last academic session 1993 94an interim order in the following terms was made by a bench comprising honourable the chief justice and one of us justice b p jeevan reddy on may 141993 in writ petition nos 350 and 355 of 1993.
we have heard shri soli j sorabjee learned senior counsel for the petitioners in these two writ petitions.
there will be an interim order in the following terms i fifty per cent of the total intake in the petitioners educational institutions shall be permitted to be filled up by candidates selected by the agencies of the state government on the basis of a competitive examination test.
the candidates so selected and admitted shall pay scales of fee as applicable to this class of students as determined by the state government from time to time.
the remaining fifty per cent of the intake may be regulated by the petitioners to admit candidates belonging to the particular religious or linguistic minority.
however the selection shall be made strictly on the basis of merit among the candidates seeking admission to the institutions.
candidates so selected on the basis of merit amongst the minorities shall however abide by such condition in the matter of payment of tuition and other fee as may be permitted by the state government.
it is made clear that this order is made on the assumption that the petitioners are minority institutions.
it is open to the respondents to question this status claimed by the petitioners.
thereafter the matter was considered by the constitution bench in its order dated august 1819932 in that order the writ petitions placed before the bench were categorised into five categories namely1 unaided minority educational institutions2.
minority educational institutions which are in receipt of state funds by way of aid3 minority educational institutions in respect of which it is not clear from the averments in the writ petitions whether they are aided or unaided institutions4.
writ petitions challenging the correctness and applicability of unni krishnan filed by educational institutions which do not claim to be minority educational institutions5 writ petitions which do not fall in any of the above categories.
it was directed that the order dated may 141993would not apply to educational institutions falling in categories 4 and 5 and the institutions referred to in paragraph 18 of the order dated august 181993 the order dated may 141993was made applicable to the institutions falling in categories 12 and 3 with the modification that following were added in continuation of the said order in continuation it is made further clear that whether any of the petitioner institutions is a mei or not is a matter for the government to verify and determine.
this order shall be shahal h musaliar v state of kerala1993 4 scc.
the fees charged in the government colleges and that the admission to these institutions is made on the basis of an all india common entrance test separately conducted by the petitioner and admissions are made on the basis of merit as determined in the said test and further that in view of the reputation of these institutions thousands of students apply for and appear in the entrance test every year.
this information should be furnished to the competent authority to the university to which the said colleges are affiliated and to the secretary education department government of karnataka tamil nadu.
in case of irregularity any of the said authorities shall be entitled to call upon the petitioner to rectify the said irregularity.
in the institutions referred to in writ petition no 598 of 1993 and similar minority educational institutions in the state of kerala which are governed by an agreement with the government of kerala the admissions shall be made in accordance with the terms of those agreements.
we make it clear that regarding the character of these institutions whether they are minority educational institutions we express no opinion.
that is a matter between the institutions and the government of kerala.
but it would be open for the management of the institution to adjudge the merit of the candidates having regard to the relevant factors.
the contempt petition nos 65100 and 126 of 1992 arise out of the judgment of this court in keshav chandra joshi v union of india 1990 indlaw sc 270 in which this court had directed to determine inter se seniority of the direct recruits and promotee asstt.
until they are appointed by the governor according to the rules they do not become the members of the service in a substantive capacity.
their continuous length of ad hoc service from the date of their initial appointment can not be counted towards seniority.
the direct recruits were appointed in accordance with rule 5a read with appendix a of u p forest service rules1952 for short the rules.
the governor was directed to make appointment by promotion to substantive vacancies to the post of asstt.
the seniority of the promotee asstt.
conservators forest shall be counted from the respective dates of appointment to the substantive posts in their quota under rule 6 of the rules.
all the employees are entitled to all consequential benefits.
therefore they are entitled to the seniority from the respective years.
shri verma appearing for some of the later direct recruits contended that the direct recruits were appointed to the substantive vacancies as held in k c joshi case and their seniority was fixed in the judgment from the date on which they started discharging the duties of the post as asstt.
the promotees therefore are entitled to 50 per cent of the posts.
thereby the action of the state is in defiance of the direction issued by this court.
since the seniority as per the direction of this court was made only to substantive posts some of the direct recruits became temporary direct recruits and the seniority was determined accordingly.
in the light of the respective contentions the question arises whether the determination of the seniority is in accordance with the directions issued by this court.
we have to consider therefore whether the procedure adopted by the sate to determine the inter se seniority is in accordance with the rules and the law laid down in k c joshi case.
therefore the procedure to be adopted by the state in fixing the inter se seniority of the direct recruits and the promotees in their respective quota is the sole question.
there is no rota prescribed in the rules.
it is clear from the counter affidavit filed by the state that the posts are both permanent and temporary.
if the temporary posts are likely to continue for long normally as per the law laid down by this court they be treated for the purpose of counting seniority as permanent posts unless they are likely to be abolished.
it is a policy matter.
in the event of converting them as permanent under rule 24the quota prescribed in rule 6 would be applied to substantive posts.
on so determining the direct recruits would go en block as seniors to the promotees and the promotee officers in the order of their inter se seniority be appointed by the governor under rule 5b read with rule 6 and would be placed below the direct recruits.
the officers he they direct recruits or promotees would rank below the juniormost officer in the list of the previous year.
it would be open to the state government to fix tentatively the inter se seniority in the temporary posts according to the ratio between the direct recruits and the promotees in the same manner of filling the substantive posts as indicated above.
as and when the temporary posts are converted either into permanent posts or the vacancies arise due to superannuation of the senior officers they should be fixed in the respective vacancies and fitment made.
the contempt petitions are accordingly disposed of.
