an fir was registered on 23 3 1996 on the statement of one prakashi devi.
she stated that on the night of 2223 3 1996while.
she and her daughter in law sheela devi were sleeping in her house around 11 30 pm the appellant jumped over the front wall of her house and broke the bulbs and ran away that at that time no male member was present in the house except the children.
that around 00 30 am the appellant again came into her house and touched her daughter in law sheela devi who woke up and raised an alarm and that the appellant immediately ran away.
the police investigated into the said complaint and submitted a report u s 173 of the code of criminal procedure for short the code.
on that basis the following charge was framed by the judicial magistrate first class karnal against the appellant that on 23 3 1996after having made preparation for causing hurt or assault you committed house trespass into the house of smt.
prakashi devi and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 452 ipc within my cognizance.
secondly on the same date time and place you assaulted and used criminal force against abovenamed prakashi devi with intent to outrage her modesty and thereby committed an offence punishable u s 354 ipc and within my cognizance.
and i hereby direct that you be tried on the above said charge by this court.
emphasis supplied.
prakashi devi was examined as pw 1 she reiterated what was recorded in the fir that the appellant came into the house around 11 30 pm and broke the bulbs that he came again around 00 30 am and touched her daughter in law sheela devi and when her daughter in law woke up and raised an alarm the appellant ran away.
the learned magistrate by judgment dated 2 2 2001held the accused guilty of offences u ss 452 and 354 cr.
the appeal filed by the accused was dismissed by the addl.
sessions judge on 20 2 2002 the criminal revision filed by the appellant was disposed of by the high court on 16 3 2010 upholding the conviction but reducing the sentence from six to four months rigorous imprisonment.
that order is challenged by the accused.
one of the contentions urged by the accused before the appellate court and high court was that the charge against him was that he attempted to outrage the modesty of prakashi devi pw 1 whereas the evidence was to show that he attempted to outrage the modesty of her daughter in law sheela devi.
he contended that as the charge levelled against him was not proved and as he was not required to defend himself against a charge that he assaulted and outraged the modesty of sheela devi he ought to have been acquitted.
this was negatived by the appellate court and high court holding that an accused can not take advantage of a technical defect in framing the charge.
it was held that mentioning the name of prakashi devi instead of the name of sheela devi in the charge was an error that did not prejudice the accused.
s 211 of the code relates to the contents of the charge.
sub s 1 thereof provides that no finding sentence or order of a court of competent jurisdiction shall be deemed invalid merely on the ground that no charge was framed or on the ground of any error omission or irregularity in the charge including any misjoinder of charge unless in the opinion of the court of appeal confirmation or revision a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby.
in willie william slaney vs state of madhya pradesh.
air 1956 sc 116 1955 indlaw sc 80 this court explained the concepts of prejudice to the accused and failure of justice thus 6 before we proceed to set out our answer and examine the provisions of the code we will pause to observe that the code is a code of procedure and like all procedural laws is designed to further the ends of justice and not to frustrate them by the introduction of endless technicalities.
the object of the code is to ensure that an accused person gets a full and fair trial along certain well established and well understood lines that accord with our notions of natural justice.
now here as in all procedural laws certain things are regarded as vital.
in still another class of case the matter may be so near the border line that very slight evidence of a reasonable possibility of prejudice would swing the balance in favour of the accused.
if all these elements are there and no prejudice is shown the conviction must stand whatever the irregularities whether traceable to the charge or to a want of one.
in adjudging the question of prejudice the fact that the absence of a charge or a substantial mistake in it is a serious lacuna will naturally operate to the benefit of the accused and if there is any reasonable and substantial doubt about whether he was or was reasonably likely to have been misled in the circumstances of any particular case he is as much entitled to the benefit of it here as elsewhere but if on a careful consideration of all the facts prejudice or a reasonable and substantial likelihood of it is not disclosed the conviction must stand also it will always be material to consider whether objection to the nature of the charge or a total want of one was taken at an early stage.
in gurbachan singh v state of punjab air 1957 sc 623 1957 indlaw sc 181 following willie slaney this court held in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
in shamnsaheb m multtani vs state of karnataka 2001 2 scc 577.
2001 indlaw sc 19904this court considered the meaning of the expression failure of justice occurring in s 464 of cr.
pc this court held thus the crux of the matter is this would there be occasion for a failure of justice by adopting such a course as to convict an accused of the offence under section 304 b ipc when all the ingredients necessary for the said offence have come out in evidence although he was not charged with the said offence.
however if the aspect is of such a nature that non explanation of it has contributed to penalizing an individual the court should say that since he was not given the opportunity to explain that aspect there was failure of justice on account of non compliance with the principle of natural justice.
thakkidiram reddy.
6 scc 554 1998 indlaw sc 1286dalbir singh v state of up 2004 5 scc 334 2004 indlaw sc 247dumpala chandra reddy vs nimakayala bali reddy 2008.
8 scc 339 2008 indlaw sc 1064 and sanichar sahni vs state of bihar 2009 7 scc 198 2009 indlaw sc 736.
in judging a question of prejudice as of guilt the courts must act with a broad vision and look to the substance and not to the technicalities and their main concern should be to see whether the accused had a fair trial whether he knew what he was being tried for whether the main facts sought to be established against him were explained to him fairly and clearly and whether he was given a full and fair chance to defend himself.
the respondent relied upon the decision of this court in state of himachal pradesh v geeta ram 2000 7 scc 452 2000 indlaw sc 408 in that case.
this court reversed the decision of the high court on the ground that a special court under the act being a sessions court it continued to have jurisdiction to try the case for the offence u s 376.
in view of the specific charge the accused concentrated on showing that the charge was false.
he did not attempt to meet the case made out in the trial that the offence was against sheela devi.
therefore we are of the view that there should be a new trial after charging him with the offence of outraging the modesty of sheela devi.
the appeal is therefore allowed the conviction of the accused is set aside and the matter is remitted to the trial court with a direction for a new trial after framing a charge by substituting the words her daughter in law sheela devi for the words abovenamed prakashi deviin the second part of the charge.
appeal allowed.
