this appeal by special leave has been preferred by tata consultancy engineers against an award dated 20th december1978 of the industrial tribunal maharashtra bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
it was urged that the efficiency bar as a feature of the wage scales should be removed.
the dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
the claim of the union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the union were accepted.
house rent allowance was also paid.
dearness allowance became payable at 10 of the basic wage subject to a minimum of rs 50 and house rent allowance at 30 of the basic salary.
in proceeding to revise the wage structure the tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
in the absence of pertinent information concerning the strength of their labour force the extent of their business the financial position for some years the capital invested the precise nature of the business the position regarding reserves dividends declared and future prospects of the company the tribunal found that it was unable to rely on them as comparable concerns.
holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden in this connection it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of tata sons limited and had no functional integrality with the other divisions.
having regard to the net profits earned by the appellant from 1968 to 1977 it found that the acceptance of the demands of the union would result in an increased burden of rs 7 crores a burden which would dry up the appellant s resources and would be impossible for it to bear.
for the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal followed unichem laboratories v their workmen 1972 indlaw sc 181 where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account of taxation development rebate and depreciation.
but it rejected the demand of the union for dearness allowance on the basis of a slab system because that would have imposed an unacceptable burden on the appellant s financial capacity and there was no reason why the existing scheme of dearness allowance should be disturbed when a substantial increase was being made in the level of the basic wage.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
however this is not clearly mentioned anywhere in the award due to accidental slip or omission.
i do not think that any problem would arise for interpretation of the award.
in this appeal the learned counsel for the appellant had covered a wide field but in the end he states that the appellant is aggrieved by two matters only.
considering the appeal of tata consulting engineers first the contention of learned counsel for the appellant is that having regard to the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal erred in making the wage scales retrospective and in any event in ranging the retrospectivity back to 1st january1976.
during all these years the appellant had continued to enjoy increasing profits nonetheless the emoluments received by the workmen did not receive the impress of the appellant s growing prosperity.
accordingly the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
in making the application of 22nd.
december1978the union invoked the jurisdiction of the.
an accidental slip or omission implies that something was intended and contrary to that intention what should not have been included has been included or what should have been included has been omitted.
for the purpose of restructuring the pay scales the tribunal ruled on the paying capacity of the appellant both with reference to the profits of the preceding year as well as the prospects of the future.
a clear statement of its intention is found in paragraph 22 of the award where the tribunal stated i only propose to modify the existing structures of the scales with flat increases in each category.
and that is confirmed by what was stated in paragraph 23 of the award considering this outgoing the flat increase of rs 150 in the category of draughtsman and rs 100 in the case of the other categories would be fair.
if as the tribunal has stated in the amendment order the increase in paragraph 23 was intended to apply to each individual workmen there is nothing in the body of the award to form the foundation on which the actual figures in the restructured pay scales can be made to rest.
considering the fitment of the workman in the revised scales it was stated in the award that a workman found drawing a salary less than the beginning of the grade would be stepped up to the beginning of the grade and if his pay fell between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay was to be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
conspicuous by its absence is any reference to a flat increase in the pay of an individual workmen.
even when considering the range of permissible retrospectivity the tribunal stated in the award in view of the revision of the wage scales there would be consequent increase in the dearness allowance and the house rent allowance.
and the clinching circumstances of all is that the award was made on the basis that the overall financial load according to paragraph 33 of the award would be to the tune of about rs 5 lakhs.
in its order of 22nd.
december1978the tribunal has referred to the statement exhibit c 51 filed by the appellant when called upon to indicate the increased financial burden apprehended by it.
in so construing the statement exhibit c 51the tribunal has grievously erred.
in the circumstances the order of 22nd december1978 is invalid so far as it amends paragraph 23 of the original award.
i shall now consider civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 filed by the workmen.
2 scr 113 1968 indlaw sc 183 now it is not a universal rule that the dearness allowance should in all cases be correlated with the cost of living index.
having regard to the not inconsiderable improvement in the level of the basic wage it observed that there would be a consequent increase in the dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
if the dearness allowance is linked with the cost of living index the whole award will have to be reopened and the entire basis on which it has been made will have to be reconsidered.
accordingly the appeal filed by the workmen must fail.
in the result civil appeal no 2299 of 1979 is allowed in part insofar that the order dated 22nd december1978 of the industrial tribunal maharashtra bombay is quashed to the extent that it modifies the original award dated 20th december1978and the corrigendum made consequent thereto is also quashed.
civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 is dismissed.
chinnappa reddy j we have had the advantage of perusing the judgment prepared by our learned brother pathak j we agree with him that civil appeal no 2300 of 1979 should be dismissed.
in the said award your honour has observed at the end of para 22in view of the increase that is being allowed in the basic pay i do not propose to revise the existing scheme of dearness allowance.
further it appears that the tribunal intended to grant the increase of rs 150 to each draughtsman and rs 100 to all other workmen in their basic pay.
even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
in the present case the industrial tribunal on a consideration of the material placed before it came to the conclusion that the company was in an undoubted position to bear the additional financial burden.
at the end of paragraph 15 of the award the tribunal stated but there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
at the end of paragraph 18 of the award the tribunal said a mere reading of exhibit u 15 will immediately dispel the misgivings about the future of the present company.
for some years to come this is likely to be one of the few consulting engineers who will be securing major contracts.
again in paragraph 19 it was said i have no doubt that the present company would be able to bear the additional burden for the years to come.
c 27 indicates the important projects the company was handling in india and abroad and the amount of foreign exchange earned and repatriated.
i will therefore proceed on the ground that the present company can bear the additional financial burden.
finally at the end of paragraph 21.
after expressing himself in categoric terms about the capacity of the company to bear the additional financial burden the tribunal went on to say i only propose to modify the existing structure of the scales with flat increases in each category.
if the pay of an employee does not coincide with any step in the revised pay scale and falls between two steps in the reclassified pay scales the basic pay of that employee shall be fixed at the step higher in the revised scale.
after fixing the salary of the employees in the scales as above the employees should be given increments in the new scales as noted below i employees who have completed 5 years or more as on 1st january19763 increments.
ii employees who have completed 4 years of service as on 1st january19762 increments.
all other employees with more than one year s service shall be given one increment.
in the case of several senior employees the revised scale would yield but a very small and almost a token increase in the size of the pay packet whereas the junior employees would get a large benefit.
immediately after the award was pronounced while the iron was still hot as it were the employees apparently realised that the employer might take advantage of the circumstance that it was not clearly mentioned in the award that all the employees were to get additional pay of rs 150 and rs 100 respectively and might contend that the tribunal had only revised the wage scales by increasing the salary on entry into the service and restructuring the scale of pay and never granted any ad hoc increase of salary to all employees.
as it has now turned out what the employees apparently suspected the employer might contend is precisely what the employer is not contending though the employer did not choose to so contend before the industrial tribunal itself when the employees filed the application for rectification.
a board court labour court tribunal or arbitrator may at any time suo moto or on an application made by any of the parties concerned may correct any clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission in any proceedings report award or as the case may be decision.
in the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.
