the three appellants are the state of west bengal in appeal arising out of slp c no 401 of 1993the state fishery development corporation ltd in appeal arising out of slp c no 13516 of 1992 and bansilal farms in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992.
the respondents are the members of one sarkar family in the city of calcutta.
a suit for partition was filed by one of the co sharers of said sarkar family in the high court of calcutta on 3 9 1955which was registered as suit no 2539 of 1955 the schedule of properties included the disputed nalban fishery.
a learned single judge of the calcutta high court passed a preliminary decree in the said suit on 11 8 1960 one of the co sharers of the sarkar family preferred an appeal against the preliminary decree before the division bench which was registered as appeal no200 of 1960 during the pendency of the aforesaid appeal the state of west.
bengal requisitioned large extent of fisheries including the disputed nalban fishery on 5 11 1969 in exercise of power under section 31 of the west bengal land requisition and acquisition act of 1948 hereinafter referred to as the requisition act pursuant to the aforesaid requisition order the state of west bengal took possession of the nalban fishery on 8 11 1969 members of the sarkar family challenged the order of requisition by filing a writ petition in calcutta high court in november1969 which was registered as civil rule no 7317 w of 1969 the aforesaid writ petition was dismissed by the learned single judge.
the appeal to the division bench was preferred against the aforesaid order of dismissal which was registered as f m a no 126 of 1970 the division bench dismissed the appeal by its order dated 5 7 1971 sarkar family moved this court in slp c no 1452 of 1972 by order dated 17 11 1972.
the collector 24 parganas took possession of the fisheries including nalban fishery as receiver and submitted a compliance report dated 22 11 1978 to the registrar of this court.
it may be noted that nalban fishery had been requisitioned by the state of west bengal under the provisions of requisition act since 5 11 1969 and possession thereof had been taken on 8 11 1969 and the sarkar family had challenged the said order unsuccessfully which final by the dismissal of the special leave petition by this court on 17 11 1972 on 25 5 1979 the collector 24 parganas who had been appointed as receiver realised that he could not have taken possession of nalban fishery as receiver since the said fishery had already been in possession of the state of west bengal pursuant to requisition order dated 5 11 1969 obviously the earlier compliance report dated 20 11 1978 that the receiver has taken possession of the nalban fishery was a symbolic one inasmuch as the state of west.
bengal was in fact in possession of the said fishery.
under the circumstances the said receiver rightly intimated this court about the mistake committed by him and re delivered possession of nalban fishery to the state of west bengal.
the calcutta high court both the learned single judge as well as the division bench committed serious error of law in directing the receiver to take possession of nalban fishery from the state of west bengal and deliver the vacant possession of the same to the members of the sarkar family.
the learned counsel also urged that in any view of the matter on the amendment of the west bengal land reforms act in the year 1936 giving it retrospective effect and defining land to include tank fishery the nalban fishery vests in the state of west bengal and therefore the high court could not have issued the impugned direction.
bengal contended that the state being the owner of nalban fishery and having vested the management and control thereof with the state fishery development corporation and the said corporation having decided to use the tank fishery for a boating complex and the bansilal farms being the highest bidder and having been granted the right to have a boating complex therein and he having invested a huge sum of money his rights can not be taken away in the dispute between the state and the sarkar family.
gupta also contended that the receiver assumed possession of the fisheries pursuant to the order of the supreme court dated 6th of november1978 and having submitted a report to that effect on 22 11 1978 indicating that it has taken possession of the nalban fishery.
gupta also contended that the order of the high court of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 23 9 1980 directing the receiver to allow m s ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots and thereafter carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect thereof has become final the same not having been challenged by the state of west.
bengal and therefore it would not be open for the said state in application for execution of the decree to raise the question of vesting of the nalban fishery with the state and the court would not interfere with the direction given by the learned single judge and division bench of the calcutta high court.
bengal.
bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they are vested in the state under the provisions of west bengal estates acquisition act1953.
further while directing the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree this court also protected the interest of the state by observing we made it quite clear that this will not in any manner prejudice or affect the right of the state to its claim over the fisheries under the west bengal acquisition act 1955 west bengal act 1 of 1954 or under any other statute.
bengal ca nt be bound down by the so called allotment of fisheries in favour of some members of the sarkar family under the compromise decree in question.
from the report submitted by the receiver it transpired that the district magistrate 24 parganas who was appointed as receiver took possession of several fisheries including nalban fishery obviously on the impression that the lease in respect of the said fishery which had been granted by the sarkar family had lapsed.
as has been stated earlier the possession which was taken by the earlier receiver was a symbolical one and factually the state had not been divested of its possession which it took on 8 11 1969 in our considered opinion the succeeding receiver rightly took into account the directions of this court passed on 18 4 1979 and 24 4 1979 and rightly took the view that the rights and interest of the state in relation to nalban fishery is not affected in any manner by the so called allotment of the fishery in the partition decree amongst the members of the sarkar family.
from the order in question which has been annexed as annexure p to the special leave petition c no 13314 of 1992it appears that the order was passed on the application on one of the members of sarkar family mr pulak sarkar.
bengal in respect of the nalban fishery as the state was not a party to the proceedings.
besides the direction of the learned judge to the effect the collector24 paraganas is directed to allow messers ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots.
after such demarcation is made the commissioner of partition is directed to approve the same and carry out the direction of the honble supreme court in respect thereof.
does not in any way take away rights of the state of west.
bengal which is otherwise protected by the supreme court while passing the compromise decree.
by virtue of the extended definition of land in section 2 7 and the amended provisions of section 3a of the land reforms act tank fishery like nalban fishery come within the definition of and it vests in the state by operation of section 31 read with section 14.
order accordingly.
