15, 706 Income tax Officer finds incorrect or incomplete then the Income tax Officer can make assessment on the total income of the deceased person and certain other consequences follow but in all the cases enumerated above the language used in sub sections 1, 2 and 3 of s.24B contemplates that the heirs and legal representatives of a deceased person are liable to pay income tax out of his estate (1) where assessment had already been made and (2) where he dies before the assessment but the income was received before his death or by his heirs and legal representatives after his death which occurs during the previous year.
Any income received in the year subsequent to the previous or the account year cannot be called income received by the person deceased.
According to the 'submission of counsel for the Commissioner of Income tax the words of sub section
The provisions of section 24B do not extend to tax liability of the estate of a deceased person beyond the previous or the account year in which that person dies.
The order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was therefore upheld, On the application of the Commissioner of 703 Income tax the following question of law was referred to the High Court : "Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the sums of Rs. 37,847/ , Rs. 43,162/ , Rs. 34,899/ , Rs. 13,402,/ and Rs. 32,523/ were assessable to income tax in the hands of the assessee "Amarchand N. Shroff by his legal heirs and representatives" in the five respective years under reference ?".
There is nothing said in that case which supports the contention raised by the Commissioner of Income tax.
In support of his contention counsel for the Commissioner of Income tax relied upon the scheme of the Act as given in Additional Income tax Officer vs E. Alfred(2).
It was held that the income was assessable.
Sub section (1) can be divided into two parts; (1) where the income of the deceased was assessed before his death and (2) where the income was not so assessed but it would have been liable to tax had he not died.
In that case, and that was a case before section 24B was enacted, a person was served with a notice under section 22(2) of the Income tax Act but no return was made within the period specified and he died.
The second part or the words above quoted when read with sub sections (2) and (3) show that they are confined to cases therein mentioned.
The correct position is that apart from s.24B no assessment can be made in respect of the income of a person after his death.
the notice under section 34 could validly be served only for the assessment years 1950 51 and notices for the subsequent years were invalid.
