When an award is made and it prescribes a new wage structure, in law the old contractual wage structure becomes inoperative and its place is taken by the wage structure prescribed by the award.
In regard to the question of 'limitation, the authority did not decide the said question as a preliminary question, because it held, and, in our opinion, rightly, that it was a mixed question of fact and law, and so, it had to be tried after recording evidence.
Mr. Setalvad for the appellant contends that before it is held that the wages prescribed by the award fall under section 2(vi), it must be shown that they constitute part of the terms of the contract of employment, either express or implied.
We are not inclined to hold that even under the unamended definition of wages, rates of remuneration prescribed by an award could not be included.
In dealing with the question of construing the unamended definition of the term "wages", it is essential to bear in mind the scope and character of the powers conferred on Industrial 'Tribunals when they deal with industrial disputes under the provisions of the Indus trial Disputes Act.
The matter will now go back to the authority under the Act for disposal in accordance with law.
It is this order which the appellant seeks to challenge before us by its present appeal by special leave.
It is now well settled that unlike ordinary civil courts which are bound by the terms of contract between the parties when they deal with disputes arising between them in respect of the said terms, Industrial adjudication is not bound to uphold the terms of contract between the employer and the employees.
In our opinion, the Bombay view correctly represents the true legal position in the matter.
The terms in question need not be express and can be implied; but they must be terms which arise out of the contract of employment, and since an award made by an Industrial Tribunal cannot be said to amount to a contract of employment, the wage structure prescribed by the award cannot fall within the definition prescribed by section 2(vi).
Appeal dismissed (1) A.I.R. 1951 Cal. 29.
The appellant raised two pleas against the respondents ' claim.
The High Court has affirmed the finding of the authority and held that section 15 was applicable to the case, because the wages prescribed by the award did amount to wages as defined by section 2(vi) of the Act.
That being so, it is difficult to accede to the argument that the wages prescribed by the award cannot be treated as wages under section 2(vi) of the Act before it was amended.
The result is, the appeal fails and is dismissed.
In Jogendra Nath (1) A.I.R. 1964 S.C. 15.
