Thus the bank 's case was that once the maximum arrived at by point to point adjustment as on January 1, 1962, was reached under cl.
292 and certain provisions were made thereunder.
This paragraph was considered by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in appeal from the Sastry award and certain modifications were made thereunder by paras 164 and 166 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision in appeal.
This means in (1) L8Sup.
5.356 of the Desai award, we may set out the two paragraphs in parallel columns for comparison: Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate decision For workmen who enterd service of the bank before 31st January, 1950 1.
Giving as we must natural meaning to the words used in rules 2 and 4, we are of opinion that in no case can the basic pay be fixed at a higher figure than what the point to point adjustment would give to the workman or the maximum in the new scale.
In addition the workman will be entitled to draw his normal increment for 1953on 1st April 1963.
(d) which will bring his salary to Rs. 112 as on January 1, 1962.
We see no force in this submission.
We are of opinion that neither the stand taken by the bank nor the stand taken by the workmen is correct, and that the relevant clauses in para.
Once it is held and that we hold that basic pay under cl.
This follows from the fact that the workman 's basic pay as on January 1, 1959 cannot be reduced and therefore when cl.
(iv) a workman will be placed in the Sastry award as modified by placing him at the stage in the Sastry award scale equal to or next above his basic pay as on January 1, 1959, in the scale then in force in the bank concerned.
The bank contests the correctness of this view.
Therefore, two increments under sub cl.
CI/66 11 904 effect that the actual fixation.
(iv) will be subject to cl.
(d) and that it did not matter whether what was thus arrived at exceeded the maximum provided under cl.
Further cl.
(a), (b) and (c) of cl.
The bank claimed that under cl.
(iv) which provides for actual calculations starts with the words "subject to rules (i) to (iii)" and therefore the actual calculations made under cl.
The labour court has partially accepted the workmen 's contention and fixed the pay of the two workmen concerned accordingly.
We therefore allow C.A. 1008 and set aside the order of the labour court and dismiss the application of Ram Parkash.
The workman 's basic pay as on 31st January 1960 shall not be reduced in any case.
901 (ii) Subject to rule (i), the adjusted basic pay in the scale provided in the Sastry award as modified shall not exceed what point to point adjustment would give him or the maximum in the scale provided by the Sastry award as modified.
Paragraph 292 as modified by the Labour Appellate Tribunal decision came up for interpretation before this Court in State Bank of India vs Prakash Chand Mehra.
The appellant bank 's contention is that two further annual increments allowed under sub cl.
3.In the matter of adjustment all efficiency bars, whether in the previously existing or in the scales fixed by us should be ignored.
(ii) has to be taken as on January 1, 1959.
(a), (b) and (c) of cl.
(a) of cl.
We do not agree with the case of the appellant bank that in cl.
(iv), and the main dispute in the present case is about this subclause.
(ii) the method of fitment provided in cl.
(i) and cl.
It will be seen from the above comparison of the provisions in the two awards that the substantial provisions of the Desai award are exactly the same as the provisions of the Sastry award as modified except (i) for changes necessitated by the fact that the Desai award was being given in 1962 and (ii) the provision in the Sastry award corresponding to sub cl.
(1) As the words of para 292 of the Sastry award as modified by the Labour Appellate Decision are almost the same as the words of para.
(i) and the basic pay to be fixed on January 1, 1959, has to be fixed by reading sub cls.
