He must depend on his department for information.
" It is not a profitable task to extract a sentence here and there from a judgment and to build upon it.
Shri P.C. Dey.
The government 's prayer for necessary certificates for leave to appeal to this Court was rejected.
Hence in the case of Shri P.C. Dey it must be assumed that his services were placed by the High Court at the disposal of the government for being posted as member sales tax tribunal.
district and sessions judge, was posted as joint secretary in the law department in the same month.
R.K.P.S. Appeals allowed in part.
There is less chance of success for a person seeking advantage for himself if the Chief Justice and his colleagues, with personal information, deal with the matter, than when a Minister deals with it on notes and information supplied by a secretary.
Soon after that decision was rendered and without any further dialogue with government in the ' light of that decision, the High Court took the precipitate step of transferring the aforementioned officers to other posts and in their place posted officers who were doing judicial work till then.
That part of the High Court 's order is clearly unsustainable.
163 be quoted for a proposition that may seem to follow logically from it.
Those officers acted in accordance with the orders of the government.
On that account, there appears to have been some friction between the High Court and the gov ernment for some years past.
The only question that fell for decision in that case was whether the government of West Bengal was competent to institute disciplinary proceedings against an addl.
That was a non cadre post.
Thereafter, he was, posted as superintendent and legal remembrancer.
It is for the executive to say whether a particular officer would meet its requirements or not.
The High Court overruled the prayer made on behalf of the government to stay the operation of its decision till necessary orders were obtained from this Court.
the High Court must also have, the power to fill up the post of the Registrar as that is also Included in the cadre.
Neither Bagchi 's case nor Ranga Mahammad 's case is of any assistance to us in deciding the question whether the High Court has competence to fill some of the posts in the secretariat by transfer judicial officers under Its control.
Similarly the posts of the law secretary, deputy law secretary and file superintendent and legal remembrancer cannot be considered as district courts or courts subordinate to district courts within the meaning of those words in article 235 of the Constitution.
Just as the High Court resents any interference by the executive in the functioning of the judiciary, the executive has a right to ask the High Court not to interfere with its functions.
These orders were duly notified in the Orissa Gazette.
Some are good stations and some are not so good.
In the result these appeals are partly allowed and the order of the High Court holding that Shri B.K. Patro, Shri K.K. Bose and Shri P.C. Dey had no authority to hold the posts they were holding on or after October 10, 1966 is set aside.
Though we hold that the orders of the High Court posting Shri B.K. Panda as law secretary, Shri T. Misra as superintendent and legal remembrancer and Shri P.K. Mohanti as deputy law secretary were excess of its powers, we do not set aside the mandamus issued by it for the reasons mentioned earlier.
(e) Shri P.K. Mohanti, district and sessions judge, Bolangir Kalahandi, as deputy secretary to the law department, a post which was vacant then, and (f) Shri P.C. Dey, member sales tax tribunal, as district and sessions judge, Bolangir Kalahandi.
By its order dated October 10, 1966, the High Court ordered the following transfers: (a) Shri K.B. Panda who was attached to the commission of enquiry in connection with students ' (1) ; 158 agitation, as law secretary to the government of Orissa, (b) Shri B.K. Patro, the then law secretary as district and sessions judge of Ganjam Boudh, (c) Shri T. Misra, district and sessions judge, Ganjam Boudh, as superintendent and legal remembrance and ex officio additional law secretary to the government of Orissa, (d) Shri K.K. Bose, the then superintendent and legal remembrance and additional law secretary as district and sessions judge of Mayurbhanj Keonjhar.
Those officers are now functioning in the posts to which they were transferred.
The cadre with which we are concerned in this case consists of three parts i.e., (1) presiding officers of district courts, (2) the Registrar of the High Court and (3) the judicial officers working in the secretariat.
If there is no such agreement it is open to the government to send him back to his parent department at any time it pleases.
The Chief Justice and his colleagues know these matters and deal with them personally.
