The only material before them was the application dated December 25, 1963, which was not supported by any affidavit sworn to before a person authorised to (1) [1962] Supp. 3 S.C.R. 127,138.
He produced the telegram received from the Advocate before the S.D.M.
The statements of the complainant and his witnesses, Bhabhuti and Damri, are recorded.
On December 23, 1963, Mahabir submitted an application in the Court of Shri R. Singh, S.D.M., Deoria, alleging that "writ petition has been admitted and a stay order has been issued.
121 administer oaths.
Contempt of court is a serious matter and a High Court should be chary of finding a judicial officer guilty of contempt of court for disobeying its orders unless there is unimpeachable evidence that the judicial officer had knowledge of the order of the High Court.
According to him, the Panchas did not tell Mahabir that his affidavit was not proper; they, however, told him to get it verified in Tehsil and that it should be duly sealed.
Sir, It is submitted that I have filed a writ petition in the above case, in the High Court.
The question then arises whether the Sarpanch and the Pan chas had knowledge of the existence of the order of the High Court dated December 20, 1963.
In the result we allow the appeal and set aside the judgment and order of the High Court.
" This order was signed by three Panchas, Phagu Parsad, Jagat Dubey and Badri Yadav.
Hence judgment shall be given on 25 12 63.
On May 21, 1964, Mahabir filed an application under sections 4 and 5 of the , against the five appellants and section K. Srivastava, A.S.D.M.
The learned counsel for the State contends that we should not reappreciate the facts, but, with respects, it seems to us that the High Court, while dealing with the evidence, has not kept in mind the principles which we have mentioned above.
This Court quoted with approval the following passage from Oswald 's Contempt of Court, in Hoshiar Singh vs Gurbachan.
In order to justify committal for breach of a prohibitive order it is not necessary that the order should have been served upon the party against whom it has been granted, if it be proved that he had notice of the order aliunde, as by telegram, or newspaper report, or otherwise, and knew that it was intended to be enforced, or if he consented to the order, or if he was present in Court when the order Was pronounced, or *hen the motion was made, although he left before the order was pronounced.
No application dated December 21, 1963, which was not accepted by the Nyaya Panchayat, has been produced.
