Having come to this view, it is clear that, to give full effect to the principle laid down by this Court the case of French Motor Car Co.(1), the Tribunal should have proceeded to fix the minimum wage in the Company on the basis of the average minimum wage prevailing in these concerns.
Learned counsel was, however, unable to show to us that this Court or any other Tribunal has ever laid down the principle that, where the dearness allowance forms a part of the consolidated wage fixed, there should be such linking so as to bring in continuous variation of the wage, depending on the variation in the Price Index.
that the bonus is worked out on the basis of the total wages paid.
It may be noticed that, by the very nature of employment being casual, it can be presumed that a casual worker is on a lower footing and cannot expect the same wagesas a permanent employee.
The principle for fixation of minimum wages that should ordinarily be adopted was laid down by this Court in the case of French Motor Car Co. Limited.
Finally, it was argued that other amenities being provided by the Company should also be taken into account when fixing the minimum wage.
" The Tribunal, in giving its decision, kept this principle in view, but came to the finding of fact that there were no other concerns in the same line of business as the Company in the region which could be compared with the Company.
The nature of work is such that the total number of workmen employed does not exceed 125 which is a very small number as compared ' with the number of workmen employed by the Company.
Further, the Tribunal was expected to decide the dispute only as referred to it and, at the time of reference at least, there was not and there could possibly not be a claim for higher bonus on the basis of the application of the Full Bench Formula.
The balance sheet and the profit and loss.
The claim in this respect also fails.
when applying the principle of fixing the minimum wage primarily on the basis of comparison.
In this connection, we may take notice of the fact that, in the written statement of the workmen, the minimum wages prevailing in these concerns were (1) [1963] Supp. 672 shown at figures lower than those mentioned by the Tribunal; but it appears that those lower figures were given, because the, wages mentioned in the written statement were based on a lower Price Index.
account of that year could only be prepared after the closure of the year on 31st March, 1963.
These two Paper Mills were, therefore, both of very recent origin compared with the Company.
into account.
The reference was made by the Government on the 4th October, 1962.
The Titaghur Paper Mill No. 3 started production only in April, 1960, while the J.K. Paper Mills at Rayagada started production in 1961 62.
In connection with the fixation of minimum wage, one point vehemently argued by learned counsel for the workmen was that at least the dearness allowance element of the wage should have been made variable with the Price Index, so that the labour could automatically be compensated for further rise in the cost of living subsequent to the making of the award.
Learned counsel had to admit that no specific plea was taken by the Company in this behalf and at least no evidence at all was led to show that these concerns are not comparable with the Company.
The pleading makes it clear that the claim for six months ' wages was not based on the Full Bench Formula, but on the ground that certain clerical staff was being paid bonus which, in effect, amounted to about six months ' basic wages, because the bonus was calculated ;in their case by taking into account the consolidated wages, including dearness allowance, while in the case of the workmen, the dearness allowance element of the wages was being ignored and bonus was calculated only by taking into account basic wages.
On this finding, it is clear that the region cure industry principle laid down in the ease of French Motor Car Co. Ltd. (1) could not have been applied by the Tribunal when fixing the wages in the Company.
At that time, the year 1962 63 was still running and the accounts for that year could not possibly have been closed and made available.
The Tribunal should not have proceeded to make the alternative calculation on some other basis so as to arrive at a lower figure of Rs. 73 p.m. as the wage covering the basic wage and the dearness allowance, in addition to Rs. 11 p.to.
The rest of the Award of the Tribunal is upheld.
necessary that the minimum wage.
not think that such a consideration should be taken.
In fact, the principle which is being applied is the simple one of calculating the bonus payable at the rate of three months ' basic wage in each case and in no case is the dearness allowance taken into account.
Initially, the workmen had challenged the decision of the Tribunal with regard to, bonus for all five years from 1959 60 to 1963 64, but, in the course.
of arguments at the last stage before us, learned counsel for the workmen confined his arguments to the bonus for the year 1962 63 only.
673 We may, at this stage, take notice of the fact that, in con sidering the question of minimum wage, the Tribunal had in view the total wage packet to be received by each workman and, in the opinion of the Tribunal, it consisted of three elements.
It was urged that this would cast a very heavy burden on the Company.
In this case, however, there is nothing to show that the Company is providing any such amenities which are different from the amenities that are being provided by those concerns in the region which.
refer it.
On behalf of the workmen, it was urged before the Tribunal that the proportion should be 3: 1: 1, so that the production bonus and the dearness allowance would both be equal and 1/3rd of the basic wage.
In fact, from the Award, it appears that, so far as the Tribunal was concerned, the workmen did not press for such linking when the award was being given.
There is, therefore, no discrimination or inequality as urged on behalf of the workmen.
