Under article 32 of the Constitution of India for the enforcement of fundamental rights.
P. R. Das and K. P. Khaitan, (B. Sen, A. K. Mukherjea and B. P. Maheswari, with them) for the petitioner.
C. K. Daphtary, Solicitor General for lndia, (Porus A. Mehta and P. G. Gokhale, with ', him) for the respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by I MEHR CHAND MAHAJAN C.J.
The principal question canvassed in this case is whether certain sections of the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947, i.e., Act XXX of 1947, have become void from the date of the commencement of the Constitution of India by reason of article 14 of the ' Constitution.
The petitioner, Suraj Mall Mohta & Co. Ltd., is a company registered under the Indian Companies Act.
Suraj Mall Mohta is also the managing director of another company Messrs. Jute and Gunny Brokers Ltd. A reference had been made by the Central Government under the provisions of section 5(1) of the Act before 58 450 1st September, 1948, of the case of Messrs. Jute and Gunny Brokers Ltd. to the Investigation Commission appointed under Act XXX of 1947.
During the investigation of that case which was numbered 831/30 in the records of the Commission, and during the investigation of some other cases similarly referred to the Commission, it was said to have been discovered that the petitioner company had made secret profits which it had not disclosed and had thus evaded taxa tion.
Section 3 authorizes the Central Government to constitute a Commission, to be called the Income tax Investigation Commission, it,% duty, being (a) to investigate and report to the Central Government on all matters relating to taxation on income, with particular reference to the extent to which the existing law relating to, and procedure for, the assessment and collection of such taxation is adequate to prevent the evasion thereof; (b) to investigate in accordance with the provisions of this Act any case or points in a case referred to it under section 5.
The composition of the Commission is set out in section 4.
