13 5 66 Commissioner of Income tax, Bihar and Orissa, Patna 9.
At this stage we need not refer to that section : We shall refer to that provision at a later stage.
To Question No. 8 in the report which reads "Whether the, Commissioner is satisfied that it is a case for the I issue of notice under section 148", he just noted the word "yes" and affixed his signatures thereunder.
Whether it is a new case or one in which re assessment (or recomputation) has to be made Re assessment 5.
Unless the requirements of clause (a) or (b) of section 147 are satisfied, the Income tax Officer has no jurisdiction to issue a notice under section 148.
The notice is being issued after obtaining the necessary satisfaction of the Commissioner of IncomeTax, Bihar and Orissa, Patna.
Whether the Board is satisfied that it is aSecretary, Board of Revenue.fit case for the issue of notice under section 148.
From the report submitted by the Income tax Officer to the Commissioner, it is clear that he could not have had reasons to believe that by reason of the assessee 's omission to disclose fully and truly all material ' facts necessary for his assessment for the accounting year in question, income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year; nor could it be said that he as a consequence of information in his possession, had reasons to believe that the income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for that year.
As we are accepting the contention of the assessee that the impugned notice is invalid inasmuch as it did not comply with the requirements of section 151(2) of the Act, we have not thought it necessary to examine the other contentions advanced on behalf of the assessee.
Name of District Ward of Circle A Ward, Muzaffarpur G. I.R. No. 303 C. 1.1.
The material that he had before him for issuing notice under section 148 is not mentioned in the report.
8.Whether the Commissioner is satisfied that Yes it is a fit case for the issue of notice under Sd/ K. Narain section 148.
R.F. 2.Status 3.
Rs. 73,604/ 6.
If a case of reassessment (or recomputation) the income (or loss or depreciation allowance) originally assessed/determined.
I therefore propose to re assess the income for the said assessment year and I hereby require you to deliver to me within 30 days from the date of service of this notice a return in the prescribed form of your income The income assessable relevant to the assessment year 1960 61 of in respect of which you are assessable for the said assessment year.
