The appeal is dismissed.
The Patna High Court in State vs Linkers Private Ltd.(5) and the Kerala High Court in Registrar of Companies vs Gopala Pillai & Ors.
Under section 131 the laying of a balance sheet and profit and loss account before the company in the general meeting is made obligatory.
It is clear, therefore, that on principle and authority it should be held that no offence was committed by the directors in this case under section 134.
Though the respondent was not represented before this Court the learned Addl.
The difference in language is very clear and pointed.
The Orissa High Court had taken a similar view in Registrar of Companies vs Misra (3) but in a latter decision in Vulcan Industries (P) Ltd. vs Registrar of Companies, Orissa(4) it has taken a contrary view and followed the decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the judgment under appeal.
It also provides that the company shall forthwith file with the registrar a copy of the list and summary, and any default hi complying with the requirements of the section is made punishable.
(4) (5) (6) (7) , J. 92 & (8) A.I.R. 413 High Court, India Nutriments Ltd. vs Registrar of Companies(1) and P.S.N.S.A. Chettiar & Company vs Registrar of Companies(2) of the Madras High Court.
They might have been guilty of offences under sections 76 and 133 but not under section 134.
Ramachandra & Sons (P) Ltd. vs State(T) of the Allahabad High Court, State vs T. C. Printers (P) Ltd. (8) of the Rajasthan (1) I.L.R. ; (2) [1875] L. R. 10 Q. B. 329.
We may now refer to some of the earlier decisions on this Point.
(6) have also taken a similar view.
But section 134 lays down that after balance sheet and profit and loss account or the income and expenditure account, as the case may be, have been laid before the company at the general meeting three copies thereof shall be filed with the registrar, and a failure to do so is made punishable under sub section (4) of that section.
Under this category fall the decisions in Dulal Chandra Bhar vs Slate of West Bengal,(5) and Gopal Khaitan vs State (6) of the Calcutta High Court.
That decision is also pending in appeal before this Court.
Section 32 relates to the preparation of a list of members of the company and of persons who have ceased to be members as well as a summary, and also provides that it shall be completed within 21 days after the day of the first or only ordinary general meeting in the year.
The decision in Ballav Dass vs Mohan Lal Sadhu(9) did not refer to the wording of the section but merely stated that the provisions of section 134 were not complied with.
Under section 133 the failure to comply with section 131 is made punishable.
We say nothing about section 32 about which this Court has already laid down the law.
The same court in Bhagirath vs Emperor(10) took the same view.
(3) (1875) 45 Law J. Rep. M. C. 41.
After referring to the decisions in Gibson vs Barlon(2) Edmonds vs Foster(3) and Park vs Lawton(4 )where it was held that a person charged with an offence could not rely on his own default as an answer to the charge, and so, if the person charged was responsible for not calling the general meeting, he cannot be heard to say, in defence to the charge that the general meeting had not been called, and that the company and its officers were bound to perform the condition precedent if they could do that, in order that they might perform their duty, this Court considered that as the correct view to take.
Solicitor General who appeared for the State of Andhra Pradesh and the learned Solicitor General who appeared for the Advocate General of Andhra Pradesh fairly placed before this Court all the decisions for and against, which we have already referred to, and also placed before us all the relevant considerations.
V.P.S. Appeal dismissed.
It was urged before us that the principle accepted by this Court in The State of Bombay vs Bandhan Ram Bhandani & Ors.
