Civil Appeal No. 1231 of 1968.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated the 20th December 1962 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Civil Appeal No. 151 of 1960.
B. D. Bal with A. G. Ratnaparkhi, for the appellant.
V. section Desai with M. N. Shroff for section P. Nayar, for respondent.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by GOSWAMI, J.
He also acquired certain properties and the said temple with the properties constituted Shri Vithal Rukhamai Sansthan of Amalner.
The sansthan had movable property of the value of Rs. 19,164/ and immovable properties of the value of Rs. 1,06,000/ and the average gross annual income as well as the average annual expenditure was Rs. 11,000/ .
After the passing of the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950 (No. 29 of 1950) (briefly the Act) an application under section 18 of that Act was filed by three persons Bhaskarrao Chimanrao Deshmukh, Ramrao Sahebrao Deshmukh and Ramkrishna Tryambak Deshpande, as constituted attorneys of Vasudeobuwa who was described in the application as the "owner" of the property.
This evidence of Ramkrishna Deshpande stands corroborated by the Sanad which shows in the year 1860 61 the Manager of the Sansthan as Balkrishnabuwa Guru Govindbuwa.
Guru Govindbuwa was the second in the line of succession after Sakharam, the founder, and Balkrishnabuwa being the third in the line.
It is clear from the Sanad that the Government treated the temple as a public religious endowment.
The next document in sequence is a Varaspatra of February 28, 1869 (exhibit 35) executed by Guru Govind Balkrishna buwa in favour of Prahladbuwa.
This is a document which was relied upon both by the District Judge as well as by the High Court.
Varaspatra is a deed of nomination by which an Adhikari for the Sansthan was nominated in order to take charge of the property, maintain and continue the religious worship of the deity as per tradition as well as of the celebration of the festivals in accordance with the customary practice of the Sansthan.
The appellant draws our attention to the following recitals in the above deed: "I have been carrying on the Malaki of Shri Sansthan Amalner. " 523 According to the appellant this would go to show that the executant of the document Balkrishnabuwa described himself as 'Malak ' (owner) of the Sansthan.
It is further pointed out that while nominating Prahlad as Adhikari, Balkrishnabuwa stated in the said document as follows: "You are entitled to the ownership of all the incomes that will come before the Deity, Shri Samarth and during the Swari (procession) as well as the income of Inam Najrana and the income of movable and immovable property".
x x x x x "The entire ownership of the Sansthan and all the movable and immovable property etc.
pertaining to the Sansthan is of yours.
That ownership is of your own.
Your Bhauband and others have no right whatsoever over the same.
You are free to give and take as per the Shishya sampradaya as has been done previously".
From the above, the appellant contends that the Sansthan was a private property and it was also transferred to the Shishya Adhikari to maintain it as his own property.
We are unable to accept this submission as we find some other significant recitals in the documents itself warranting a contrary conclusion.
Although it is stated in the document that Balkrishnabuwa was "carrying on the Malaki", he at the same time states with regard to the Sansthan thus: ". the same was entrusted to me by Shri Guru Maharaj". . x x x x x "I, therefore, thought that I should entrust the work of the Sansthan to you and have appointed you to the said Sansthan".
The nature of devolution is explicit in the above extract.
