" It would thus appear that the Scheme of the benefits admissible under the Act cannot be said to cover the work men 's demand for sick leave to the extent allowed by the Tribunal.
It is apparent that the Employees ' State Insurance Scheme does not cover all contingencies of sickness and in any event the first two waiting days are not covered.
84 Insurance Act states that a person qualified to claim sickness benefit shall not be entitled to the benefit for an initial waiting period of two days except in the case of a spell of sickness following at an interval of not more than fifteen days, the spell of sickness for which benefit was last paid.
It is therefore .futile to contend that the benefit should not be admissible on the ground that it had not been allowed by other companies in the region.
(2) [1965] 2 L L.3,149.
The Act does not in fact deal with the question of sickness leave.
those companies.
It has to be appreciated that a workman is prevented from earning the normal daily wages during the period of his illness and there is no justification for the argument that the rate of benefit at about half his wage, under the Act, should be considered sufficient so as to deny him the bene fit of sick leave on full emoluments for a period of 7 days when he is certified by a competent medical officer to be ill for that or a longer period.
As has been stated, the Act came into force in the region concerned on December 14, 1969, and it has not been disputed before us that till then it was the practice in the glass industries to grant sick leave with wages for periods varying from 6 to 10 days.
Mr. S.T. Desai has raised the argument, in the case of Jyoti Ltd., Baroda, that the Tribunal laboured under a misconception that 86 the sickness benefit would be lost for the first two days of sickness under the first proviso to section 49 of the Act, that the Tribunal should not, in any view of the matter, have given the benefit of 7 days sick leave, and that the workmen did not deserve anything more than sickness benefit for the first two days also.
The reason is that the first proviso to section 49 of the Employees ' State (1) [1964] 1 S.C.R. 234.
In our opinion, the tribunal was, there fore, justified in its view that the workmen are entitled to 7 days ' sick leave with wages on pro duction of a medical certificate.
As against this, the Tribunal has examined the financial capacity of the two companies in question, and has given adequate rea sons for holding that they are in good financial position and can bear the additional burden of sick leave.
It has not been disputed before us that the "region cure industry" basis is suitable in cases like the present for examining any controversy regarding the work man 's demand for additional benefits, but it has been argued by the learned counsel for the appellants that the award of the benefit of sick leave to the workers of the two Compa nies could not be justified on that basis.
V.B. Patel, 1.
It there fore appears that the Tribunal could not be said to have erred in restoring the benefit which the workmen were re ceiving under the award of 1958, for it was taken away under the mistaken impression that it had been adequately replaced by the new provisions on the coming into force of the Act.
