If any in statutory interpretation belongs to the ill used wife and the derelict divorcee.
So we must deal with the dual sub heads of the third ground.
He first argued that section 125(4) would apply in the absence of proof that the lady was not living separately by mutual consent.
From this coign of vantage we must view the printed text of the particular Code.
The magistrate 's order proceeds on neglect to maintain; the sessions judge has spoken nothing to the contrary; and The High Court has not spoken at all.
In this generous jurisdiction, a broader perception and appreciation of the facts and their bearing must govern the verdict not chopping little logic or tinkering with burden of proof.
a simple reading of the sub section and it is curious how this innovative and sensitive provision with a benignant disposition towards destitute divorcees has been overlooked by all the courts below.
This is the teleological A interpretation, the sociological decoding of the text of s.127.
This is obviously beyond dispute or.
The next submission is that the absence of mutual consent to live separately must be made out if the hurdle of section 125(4) is to be over come.
His next plea was that there must be proof of neglect to maintain to attract s.125 and his third contention was that there was a settlement by consent decree in 1962 whereby the mehar money had been paid and all claims adjusted, and so no claim for maintenance could survive.
We see hardly any force in this plea.
This social perspective granted, the resolution of all the disputes projected is easy.
This order was challenged before the sessions Judge by the aggrieved husband, who on a strange view of the law that the court, under section 125, had no jurisdication to consider whether the applicant was a wife, dismissed the petition in allowance of the appeal.
Surely, Parliament, in keeping with article 15(3) and deliberate by design, made a special provision to help women in distress cast away by divorce.
Obviously, he has no case of non neglect.
On this foundation, he urged that accepting the contention of the respondent that the appellant was a divorcee? his client was still entitled to an allowance.
Do divorcees have to 1) prove mutual consent to live apart? Divorce painfully implies that the husband orders her out of the conjugal home.
This traumatic horror animates the amplitude of s.127.
Where the husband, by customary payment at the time of divorce, has adequately provided for the divorce, a subsequent series of recurrent does is 81 contra indicated and the husband liberated.
The purpose of the payment 'under any customary or personal law ' must be to obviate destitution of the divorcee and to provide her with wherewithal to maintain herself.
The whole scheme of section 127(3) (b) is manifestly to recognise the substitute maintenance arrangement by lump sum payment organised by the custom of the community or the personal law of the parties.
The proposition, therefore, is that no husband can claim under section 127(3)(b) absolution from this obligation under section 125 towards a divorced wife except on proof of payment of a sum stipulated by customary or personal law whose quantum is more or less sufficient to do duty for maintenance allowance.
His plea is his right to ignore.
No settlement of claims which does not have the special statutory right of the divorcee under section 125 can operate to negate that claim.
But if one were to locate a legal ground to raise The contention That the liability to pay maintenance had ceased on account of the payment of mehar, it is section 127(3) of the Code.
No construction which leads to frustration of the statutory project can secure validation if the court is to pay true homage to the Constitution.
or has obtained a divorce from, her husband and has not remarried.
The conclusion that we therefore reach is that the appeal should be allowed and it is hereby allowed, and the order of the trial court restored.
The compulsive conclusion from a divorce by a husband and his provision of a separate residence as evidenced by the consent decree fills the bill.
The only just construction of the section is that Parliament intended divorcees should not derive a double benefit.
80 section 125 requires, as a sine qua non for its application, neglect by husband or father.
Protection against moral and material abandonment manifest in article 39 is part of social and economic justice, specificated in article 38, fulfilment of which is fundamental to the governance of the country (Art.37).
The High Court deigned to bestow little attention on the matter and summarily dismissed a revision petition.
The last defence, based on mehar payment, merits more serious attention.
This protracted and fluctuating litigation misfortune has leu to the appeal, by special leave, before this Court.
His case, on the contrary, is that she has forfeited her claim because of divorce and the consent decree.
Payment of mehar money, as a customary discharge, is within the cognisance of that provision.
The contractual limb of the contention must easily fail.
The consent decree of 1962 resolved all disputes and settled all claims then available But here is a new statutory right created as a projection of public policy by the Code of 1973, which could not have been in the contemplation of the parties when in 1962, they entered into a contract to adjust their then mutual rights.
