Cherlopalle is about 25 miles from Krishna Kalva.
The accused used to visit his wife and often used to stay in the house of the deceased 's mother.
Merely because the Medical Officer stated that the victim could have received the injury if she was standing, it did not follow that the injury could have been received in the circumstances mentioned by the accused.
P. B. R. Appeal dismissed.
We may also refer here to the comment of the learned Counsel for the appellant that realizing that the motive would assume considerable importance if the case was one based on circumstantial evidence, the prosecution tried to make P. W. 3 depose as if she had witnessed occurrence.
The Medical Officer, P. W. 12 who conducted the autopsy, found on the dead body a stab wound over the left axila 6 cms.
After Sanwat Singh vs State of Rajasthan, this Court has consistently recognised the right of the Appellate Court to review the entire evidence and to come to its own conclusion, bearing in mind the considerations mentioned by the Privy Council in Sheo Swarup 's case.
R. (4) Salmon J. in his charge to the jury in R. V. Fantle reported in (5) 370 The law would fail to protect the community if it admitted fanciful possibilities to deflect the course of justice.
If the preponderance of probability is all one way, a bare possibility of another view will not entitle the accused to claim the benefit of any doubt.
In Khem Karan & Ors.
below the arm pit on the left side.
It is, therefore, essential that any view of the evidence in favour of the accused must be reasonable even as any doubt, the benefit of which an accused person may claim, must be reasonable. "A reasonable doubt", it has been remarked, "does not mean some light, airy, insubstantial doubt that may flit through the minds of any of us about almost anything at some time or other, it does not mean a doubt begotten by sympathy out of reluctance to convict; it means a real doubt, a doubt founded upon reason"(4).
nearly horizontal.
After the ninth day the mother and child, according to customary practice, were taken by the mother of the deceased to her house at Krishna Kalva.
He probably attributed the refusal to reluctance on the part of his wife to accompany him straightaway.
To entitle an accused person to the benefit of a doubt arising from the possibility of a duality of views, the possible view in favour of the accused must be as nearly reasonably probable as that against him.
In the Committing Court the accused was content with a bare denial but in the Court of Sessions he stated that he went to the house of his mother in law at about 10 p.m.
This time he also brought with him P.W. 8, an elderly gentleman from his village.
As observed by Lord Denning in Miller vs Minister of pensions(5) "Proof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean proof beyond a shadow of a doubt.
After dinner all of them went to sleep.
The house consisted of only one room.
We have perused the relevant evidence as well as the judgments of the Sessions Judge and the High Court.
The accused and P. W. 8 went away.
(1) 61 I.A. 389.
P. Ws. 1 and 2 taunted him saying "we are maintaining you and your wife, yet you come at any time you like` '.
The High Court was well justified in commenting that the discrepancies on the basis of which the Trial Court rejected the evidence of P. Ws. 1, 2 and 3 were of a minor character and that they have been unduly magnified by the learned Sessions Judge.
After holding the inquest the dead body was sent for postmortem examination.
They caught hold of the accused and tied him to a pole in front of the house by means of a rope.
This, of course, is not a new principle.
We do not think that the comment is justified.
He also contended that two views were possible on the evidence and the accused was entitled to the benefit of doubt.
On 18th December, 1972, according to the case of the prosecution the accused once again requested his mother in law to send his wife to his house.
About three months before the occurrence the deceased gave birth to a female child in the house of the accused at Cherlopalle.
