He alleged that Mahant Shivshanker Yati owned personal properties which included the properties in village Amauli, that he was the chela of Mahant Shivshanker Yati and the Amauli properties had passed to him under a will executed by the Mahant.
We are concerned in this appeal solely with the Amauli properties.
The present appeal is directed against that part of the judgment and decree of the High Court.
They included sanyasis who had formerly been married men and householders, men who had passed through the grihastha ashram.
In the present case, it is difficult to conclude from the material before us that the total income from the properties belonging to the Math and the deity left any appreciable surplus after meeting the expenditure on account of bhog, arpan, deepdan, daily and annual puja and the other obligations specified in the waqf deed.
Math Sauna is an old Math situated in the village of that name in Tehsil Saidpur in the district of Ghazipur.
The surplus, the deed directed was to be employed for acquiring further property in the name of the deity and was not to be applied by the Sarbarakar to his personal use.
It held that the Amauli properties had been purchased by Shivshanker Yati in 1921 from 662 the personal and separate funds inherited by him from his predecessor Shivpher Yati, and that the Amauli properties must, therefore, be regarded as his personal and separate properties and they did not belong to the Math or the deity.
The mere fact that a Mohunt is an ascetic does not raise any presumption that a property in his possession is not his personal property.
The High Court allowed both the appeals by its judgment and decree dated April 21, 1969.
The learned Civil Judge decreed the suit but included a finding in his judgment that Sadashiv Yati was not a regularly constituted Mahant of Math Sauna and Sarbarakar of the deity.
The suit was contested by the first defendant, Kedar Nath Chaubey, also referred to as Uma Shanker Yati.
It was observed in Sushil Chandra Sen vs Gobind Chandra Das(l) that Dashnami sanyasis mixed freely in the business world and carried on trade and often accumulated property.
The Mahants and members of Math Sauna belonged to the Dashnami Sanyasi sect.
As has been observed, there can be no presumption either way.
It is urged for the appellants that where a nucleus of dedicated property exists, the acquisition of additional property should be attributed to the application of the nucleus and must, therefore, be regarded as property belonging to the Math or the deity.
Mahant Shivshankar Yati executed a will in 1956, and it appears beyond dispute that by virtue of this will the Amauli properties devolved on Uma Shankar Yati.
In the result, the appeal is dismissed with costs.
This Court in Gurcharan Prasad vs Krishnanand (2) affirmed that Nihang Dashnami Sanyasis could pursue money lending business and could own property as absolute owners, and enjoy them as their personal property.
The High Court has found that the claim was not accepted by the assessing authority, and that the position in regard to those properties taken in the assessment proceedings was adopted by the Mahant only for the purpose of escaping personal liability to tax.
It is admitted between the parties that the Amauli properties were purchased by Mahant Shivshankar Yati for Rs. 40,000 forming part of a fund left behind by his predecessor Mahant Shivpher Yati.
