servant.
The other is that of Dr. Harinandan Prasad Verma, Specialist in Anaesthesia, promoted as Professor of Anesthesiology, Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi.
Vacancies in the Specialist Grade I posts of Professor are filled by direct recruitment and promotion in the ratio of 1 : 1. 33 For promotion to the posts of Professor, Associate Professor/Assistant Professor with 8 years service are eligible.
Dr. Bose has never worked as Assistant Professor/Reader to become eligible for promotion as Associate Professor.
That is to say, 100% of vacancies in the Specialists ' Grade have to be filled by direct recruitment through the Union Public Service Commission.
The Army Hospital is not under the Central Health Service.
Delhi University has recognised him as a Supervisor of Thesis and a teacher.
The prospectus and the Annual Report are informative bulletins only.
After the amendment of the CHS Rules, only Assistant Professors possessing five years experience were eligible for appointment as Associate Professor.
We find it rather difficult to support the impugned action of the Government of India in the Health Ministry in holding that the teaching experience gained by the appellant as Radiologist cum Associate Professor or Radiology (ex officio) with effect from October 9, 1964 cannot be taken into consideration.
Since Dr. Bose was holding the Clinical post of Radiologist, he was not in direct line of and eligible for promotion to the 32 post of Associate Professor.
26 It appears that subsequent to his substantive appointment by the President to Specialists ' Grade with effect from September 9, 1966, the appellant was called by the Banaras Hindu University for an interview on August 7, 1972 for the post of Professor of Radiotherapy but since the post of Associate Professor of Radiotherapy in Maulana Azad Medical College was falling vacant in 1973, he did not appear for the interview.
A letter of the Registrar of the Rohtak University dated December 9, 1976 requesting the Central Government to place his services on deputation with the Rohtak University for a period of three years in the first instance as the appellant, having put in 17 years ' service, was not inclined to resign his post as Radiologist in the Irwin Hospital.
One is that of Dr. (Kum.) P. Nirupma Nayak, Specialist in Gynaecology, Central Hospital, Dhanbad, promoted as Professor of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, JIPMER, Pondicherry; later promoted to Supertime Grade I as Medical Superintendent at JIPMER, Pondicherry.
Paragraph 2 (b) thereof reads : "Supertime Grade II 50 years For Professors/Additional Rs. 1300 1800 and be Professors low re in medical colleges laxable /teaching institu for Govt.
S.R. Appeal allowed.
The post of Professor of Radiotherapy in the Maulana Azad Medical College is a post belonging to Specialist Grade I which is equivalent to Supertime Grade II carrying a pay scale of Rs. 1800 2250.
All that they state is that Dr. A.K. Bose is an ex officio Associate Professor.
That the appellant does not fulfil the above mentioned requirement and thus cannot be considered for promotion to the post of Associate Professor as per CHS Rules.
R.7 provides for the initial appointment to the Service.
" The Ministry has also filed the affidavit of Shri N.S. Bakshi, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare to the effect : "That according to the Central Health Service (Amendment) Rules, 1966, atleast 5 years experience as Reader/Assistant Professor in the concerned speciality in a medical college/teaching institution is after the requisite post graduate qualification is absolutely essential for promotion to the post of Associate Professor.
Specialist Grade II 1100 1800 3.
The Specialist in Safdarjang Hospital and Dr. R.M.L. Hospital do not have teaching designation assigned by 31 the Central Health Service.
The Central Health Service was formed more than two decades ago and was intended to replace the Indian Medical Service, but the recruitment rules were not framed till the year 1963.
Dr. A.K. Bose has been delivering lectures to post graduates of Delhi University and has guided some thesis.
These persons who are participating in the teaching programme have been recognised by the University of Delhi as Professors/Readers/Lecturers/Teachers without specific teaching designation on the condition that such designations will be valid "for the period till such time the Safdarjang Hospital continues to impart instructions in clinical subjects to the under graduate students of University College of Medical Sciences and the persons continue to take part in the said teaching".
We would suggest that there should be at least one post in the higher grade of Rs. 1800 2250 for every speciality.
The Lady Hardinge Medical College also has a separate hospital attached to it.
As already stated, the word "as" in these provisions must, in the context in which it appears, be interpreted to mean "in the capacity of".
18.09.1971.
One instance of this as given by the appellant is of his immediate predecessor Dr. O. P. Bhardwaj, Radiologist cum Reader in Radiology ex officio) in the Irwin Hospital who was appointed as Professor of Radiology in the Maulana Azad Medical College; and presently is Dean, Jawaharlal Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education & Research, (JIPMER), Pondicherry.
" Instances are not uncommon where Specialists have been promoted as Professors of their concerned speciality.
The Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of Delhi by its letter dated July 10, 1972 informed the appellant that the Board of Research Studies for Medical Sciences had at its meeting held on January 15, 1972 appointed him as a Supervisor for the post graduate students for the M.D. (Radiotherapy) course of study.
The conferment of teaching designations by the University of Delhi does not mean that these officers are recognised as teachers for the purposes of their service conditions in the Central Health Service.
The Under graduate teaching programme is only an internal arrangement of the Radiology Department.
