It was further stated that the averments in the plaint that the defendant Corporation cashed the above two cheques and appropriated the amounts and credited these in the account towards premium payable for the proposal were false.
The respondents plaintiffs examined Shri R.V. Bhupala Prasad, son of the deceased and the Corporation on its behalf examined Shri Jagannadhachari, the Superintendent of the Corpo 355 ration branch at Guntur.
When the acceptance was complete and when there was no requirement necessary and if the full first instalment was 356 in deposit, it would be adjusted towards premium amount, he stated.
He had further stated that the proposal form was sent from the office at Guntur to the Divisional office at Masulipatam, and exhibit B 1 to B 4 and B 8 were sent in this connection.
In his deposition, he had stated that the Divisional Manager was the competent authority for accepting the proposal for Rs. 50,000.
When the application so requires, the acceptance must be evidenced by the signature of one of the company 's executive officers.
We order accordingly that the respondents will therefore pay back half of the actual amount received both of the principal together with interest within three months from this date.
He further stated that the letters 'DM ' were also written by him indicating that the papers should go to the Divisional Manager on exhibit B 4.
He, further, stated that the amount would be transferred into the first premium register after the proposal was accepted and the risk covered.
B 4, the review slip, prepared by the Branch office, Guntur and sent to the Divisional officer, Masulipatam.
The test is not intention alone.
The general rule is that the contract of insurance will be concluded only when the party to whom an offer has been made accepts it unconditionally and communicates his acceptance to the person making the offer.
In this connection we may refer exhibit B 14 which is the Life Insurance Corporation of India 's Proposal Review Slip regarding proposal in the case of the deceased.
It was categorically stated that the cheques were not credited and adjusted towards the premium accounts.
The mere execution of the policy is not an acceptance; an acceptance, to be complete, must be communicated to the offeror, either directly, or by some definite act, such as placing the contract in the mail.
Shri Brahmandrao Ramiah Assistant Divisional Manager of the Life Insurance Corporation office at Madras was also examined as the second witness of the defendants.
He further stated that according to the financial powers Standing order, it was the Divisional Manager who was competent to accept a proposal for Rs. 50,000 exhibit B 13 is the copy of the Standing order.
Normally it took some time for the Divisional Manager to accept.
During the trial before the learned Subordinate Judge, five different issues were raised.
He stated that the endorsement marked as exhibit B 14 was initialled by him.
He had produced the account books, namely; deposit account book and the first premium account book of the Branch office at Guntur.
In the result, the suit filed by the respondents plaintiffs was dismissed with costs.
Cheque for Rs. 220 was dishonoured three times and finally encashed on 11th January, 1961.
In our opinion, the High Court was in error in appreciating the facts and the evidence in this case.
With the above observations, the appeal is allowed.
See in this connection the statement of law in Corpus Juris Secundum, Vol.
The endorsement therein of the assistant Divisional Manager read as follows: "NOTES AND DECISION : may be accepted at O.R." WITH E.D.B. Shri Brahmandrao Ramiah had further stated that the papers were scrutinised by him in addition to the scrutiny by the concerned clerks.
He reiterated that the order of acceptance would not be communicated to the party if all the formalities were not complied with; this policy, he stated, was not accepted.
