28 by reference to which the power conferred upon him thereunder could be exercised by the Administrator, but that is not decisive of the matter.
" The High Court has struck down the aforesaid provision only on the ground that it suffers from the vice of excessive delegation of legislative power inasmuch as no criteria or guide lines have been 954 provided by reference to which the power conferred on the Administrator to refuse permission or grant permission should be exercised and that the section confers an arbitrary, uncanalised power upon the Administrator with the result that the licensed dealer is at his mercy while seeking permission to carry on money lending or banking business on the security of any article, ornament or both in the same premises in which he carried on business as such dealer.
For instance under clause (a) the Administrator was required to have regard to the number of dealers existing 'in the region ' in which the applicant was intending to carry on business as dealer but the word 'region ' was no where defined in the Act; similarly clause (b) required the Administrator to have regard to the anticipated demand ', as estimated by him for the ornaments in that region but the expression 'anticipated demand ' was really vague and incapable of assessment leading to a great deal of uncertainty; similarly the expression (1)AIR 1971 Patna, 240.
The High Court 's reasoning in this behalf is to be found in its judgment at page 87 of the paper book and it runs thus: "The Administrator as is evident from this provision, is given unlimited authority or power to refuse permission or to grant permission.
27(6) of the Act, as it stood prior to its amendment by the Amending Act No. 26 of 1969, constitutionally invalid on the ground of conferal of a very wide and vague power upon the Administrator to grant or renew a license to a dealer.
We may indicate that the same provision (section 28) was challenged before the Patna High Court in Bihar State Bullion Merchants ' Association vs Union of lndia(1) and the Gujarat High Court in Ramanlal Purshottamamdas Chokshi vs Union of India & Others (2) and these High Courts have upheld its validity.
The appeal succeeds but since the respondents have not appeared there will be no order as to costs.
Having regard to this position which obtains in the case sec.
Even the restriction in the case of a third person in carrying on business as a money lender, banker or any other business in the same premises is not absolute in as much as the Administrator can authorise the third person to carry on the business in the licensed premises of the dealer and while implementing such limited restrictions or granting relief against the same he will be guided by the policy and purposes of the Act and by the prime consideration that circumvention of the other provisions of the Act shall not be premitted.
(e) and 'public interest ' in cl.
5(1 of the Act requires that the Administrator should have regard to the policy and purposes of the Act in making his orders.
Moreover against his order under that section a revision lies to Central Government which implies that he will have to make judicious use of his power or discretion and any improper exercise is liable to be corrected by a higher authority.
28 are meant to prevent the circumvention of other provisions of the Act.
27(6) of the Act invalid we would like to point out that while conferring power on the Administrator in the matter of granting or renewing a license to a dealer the unamended sec.
27(6) of the Act is clearly inapplicable.
27(6) this Court struck down sec.
In other words, the several restrictions that have been put on the activities of the traders doing business in gold will have to be viewed from the aforesaid perspective.
It is clear that Section 28 confers an arbitrary and uncanalised power without any criteria for guiding the discretion of the Administrator.
" In Harakchand Banthria 's case (supra) this Court has further pointed out that even though import of gold into India had been banned considerable quantities of contraband gold were finding their way into the country through illegal channels affecting the national economy and hampering the country 's economic stability and progress, that the Customs Department was not in a position to effectively combat the smuggling over the long borders and coast line, that therefore anti smuggling measures had to be supplemented by a detailed system of control over internal transactions and that the Gold (Control) Act, 1968 was passed for this purpose.
The main object in putting the Act on the Statute Book as indicated by its long title is "to provide, in the economic and financial interests of the community, for the control of the production, manufacture, supply, distribution, use and possession of, and business in, gold ornaments and articles of gold and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
28 cannot be struck down on the ground of excessive delegation of legislative power and its validity has to be upheld.
We approve the view taken in those cases As regards the analogy drawn by the High Court from the reasoning adopted by this Court in Harakchand Banthia 's case (supra) while declaring unamended sec.
