There is an obvious advantage in adopting as the valuation date the last day of a period which is also the relevant period under the Income Tax Act.
In this view of the matter, we approve of the opinion expressed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Vedrevu Venkappa Rao (supra) 311 and in Commissioner of Wealth Tax, A.P. I vs Pachigolla Narasimha Rao(1) and the Calcutta High Court in Dipti Kumar Basu vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, West Bengal(2) and hold that the view taken by the Orissa High Court in Commissioner of Wealth tax vs Vysyaraju Badreenarayana Moorthy Raju (Orissa) (supra) and by the Karnataka High Court in A. T. Mirji vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Karnataka(3) cannot be accepted.
The Commissioner of Wealth Tax applied under sub section
Under section 3 of the Wealth Tax Act, wealth tax is charged for every assessment year in respect of the net wealth of the assessee on the corresponding valuation date.
There is no order as to costs.
The assets are not confined to cash.
In the result, the question is answered in the affirmative, in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee.
(m) of s.2 of the Act as "the amount by which the aggregate value . .
In other words, it would be the estimated open market value of the rights in the property which constitute the asset.
Where the asset is an asset other than cash, its value is determined pursuant to sub section
When we speak of the value of a property, on a legal plane we refer to the value of the rights in that property.
All the assets of the assessee, bar those expressly excepted by the statute, are to be taken into account, and it is immaterial whether the assessee employs one system of accounting or another.
The Appellate Tribunal observed that the judgment of the Orissa High Court was binding on it, and accordingly by a consolidated order dated April 3, 1972, it dismissed the appeals.
It is apparent that what accrues as a right also falls to be included within the assets of an assessee under the Wealth Tax Act.
The reasons for defining the valuation date in terms of the last day of the income tax "previous year" stop there.
The contention found favour with the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, and accordingly he deleted the additions of Rs. 1,50,000 representing accrued interest.
The expression "net wealth" is defined by cl.
(I) of s.7 as the estimated price, which, in the opinion of the Wealth Tax Officer, the asset would fetch if sold in the open market on the valuation date.
That is the "valuation date".
That appears plainly from the definition or "net wealth" which speaks of "the aggregate value. of all the assets" belonging to the assessee on the valuation date.
There is clear indication that the assets to be considered are not circumscribed by any consideration of the particular system of accounting adopted by the assessee.
Of all the assets, wherever located, belonging to the assessee on the valuation date. is in excess of the aggregate value of all the debts owed by the assessee on the valuation date. " According to the scheme of the Wealth Tax Act, the net wealth of an assessee has to be determined as it obtains on a particular date.
