In the impugned judgment, the Allahabad High Court had followed the said decision.
The Tribunal held that they were not carrying on banking business.
A similar letter was written by Ved Prakesh thanking the assessee, his father, for the gift of Rs.25,000 made to him and Rs.50,000 gifted to his son.
In the case of banking companies or other firms and companies who have overdraft facilities, even if the sums are not in credit of the donor and are not with such companies or firms, gifts might be possible by adjustment of the book entries.
But in that case, the question in the present form in which it arises before us in the instant case did not arise.
There, M, the deceased, was a 132 partner in a firm having a half share in the partnership.
He had large assets but these were represented by land, buildings, plant, machinery and stock in trade.
As the respondent is not appearing, there will be no order as to costs.
Such delivery may be made in the same way as goods sold may be delivered.
Memo of gift recorded on stamp paper.
Cash Balance was only Rs.7626.
The Madras High Court in the case of Mrs. Ida L. Cham bers and Three Others vs Kelland Huxford Chambers, was dealing with a case where C, proprietor of a business who had invested a large amount of capital in it, caused entries to be made in his account books crediting his wife and certain other members of his family with sums which were debited to his capital account.
There was no evidence, it appears, that the said sum was available with the said firm of M/s Pearls & Beads.
The Tribunal held that section 10 of the was not attracted and the sum of Rs. 1,50,000 could not be included in the property passing on the death of M; and the High Court, on a reference, affirmed the viewes of the Tribunal.
Though C had the intention of making gifts, the entries in the books did not complete the gift.
Reference may also be made for this proposition to the decision of the Delhi High Court in New India Colour Co. vs Commissioner of Income:Tax, New Delhi, The effect of the two aforesaid decisions of the learned fudges of the Delhi High Court indicates that in case there was not sufficient cash balance from out of which the amount gifted could be physically given to the donee, more entries in the books of account in the form would not constitute delivery of possession over the gifted property to the donee and gift in such case will not be valid.
It appears further that copies of this letter were sent to one Om Prakash Gupta and Ved Prakash Gupta.
In the case of Commissioner of IncomeTax, Ahmedabad vs Digvijaysinghji Tin Factory, , on the contrary it was held that the gifts were valid though not sufficient cash with firm avail able but proper book entries were made.
The assessee must also have sufficient credit balance to enable him to make the gift.
The adjustment of entries made in the books of account was in pursuance of a letter 131 written by the assessee to the said Hindu undivided family on the same date.
But the Allahabad High Court in the case of Gopal Raj Swarup vs Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Lucknow (supra) had to deal with the wealth tax.
The Rajasthan High Court in K.P. Brothers vs Commission er of Income Tax, New Delhi, held that there was a valid gift but in that case it was a banking company.
It was further held that there was no trust either and that there was nothing in the acts or conduct of C to show that he intended to create a trust or to constitute himself a trus tee.
On 27th March, 1957, M made a gift of Rs. 1 lakh to his son, L, and of Rs.50,000 to his wife, K, by making debit entries in his account in the firm and corresponding credits to the accounts of L and K. With effect from 28th March, 1957, L was taken as a partner in the firm by giving L one forth share out of the half share of M. M died on 9th January, 1962.
Rangoon High Court in Abba Dada and Company vs Commis sioner of Income Tax, Burma, held that the mere book entries were not sufficient in that case to constitute valid gift.
The Allahabad High Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax, U.P.v. Smt.
Property purchased out of gift and income was used by the family.
C was not in a position to make gifts in cash of the amounts credited in favour of his wife and relatives.
The transfer was effected by debit ing the assessee 's personal account in the books of the Hindu undivided family with Rs.50,000 and crediting the same in the personal account of his son.
There the assessee was the karta of a Hindu undivided family.
The Wealth Tax Officer and the Income Tax Officer rejected the contention that he made a gift of Rs.50,000 to his son and this amount should be excluded from his taxable net wealth.
On 1st January, 1957, the account showed a credit of Rs. 1,50,740.
The gift was held to be valid.
The circumstances must be such as to make it clear that there were sufficient funds at the disposal of the donor by reason of which he could make the gift by such book entries.
It was also stated to be carrying on business of advancing money and taking money on loan when necessary.
This question has been examined by the various High Courts.
3,4 and 5 were answered in the negative.
But in the cases of non banking companies or firms, if these companies or firms do not have overdraft facilities, it is not possible to make valid gift if sums or funds are not available.
In that case, it was found that the effect of the transaction in that case was to put the amounts in the possession of the assessee who was authorised to hold the amounts on behalf of the donees which resulted in a delivery of the amounts within the meaning of the Sale of Goods Act.
