vil Appeal No. 10761077 of 1987.
From the Judgment and Order dated 17.8.1985 of the Allahabad High Court in C.M. Writ No. 6849 of 1984.
Leave and retirement In the matter of leave and retire ment, Field Officers shall be governed by the same regula tions as are applicable to Class I officers of the Corpora tion.
(1) guarantees to the trans ferred employee the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions on the transfer to the Corporation as he enjoyed on the appointed day under the insurer, and he is entitled to them until they are duly altered by the Corporation or his employment in the Corpora tion is terminated.
K. Parasaran, B. Datta, P.P. Rao, K.L. Hathi, Anil Nauriya, S.R. Aggarwal, Y. Ramachandran, U.J. Rana, R.P. Srivastava, Hem 188 ant Sharma, P. Parmeshwaran, Ms. Sushma Suri and C.V. Subba Rao for the Appellants.
M.K. Ramamurthy, C.S. Vaidyanathan, section Ravindra Bhatt, Mohan, S.R. Setia and Probir Choudhary for the Respondents.
1977 by the Life Insurance Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as 'the Corporation ') which pro vides that an employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the competent authority may, if it is of the opinion that it is in the interest of the Corporation to do so, direct such employee to retire on completion of 50 years of age and at any time thereafter on giving him three months ' notice or salary in lieu thereof.
1955 there were more than 200 insur ers carrying on life insurance business in India.
On the passing of the said Ordinance the management of the controlled business of all the insurers in India thus vested in the Central Government and pending the appointment of the custodians for the controlled business of any insurer the person in charge of the management of such business immedi ately before the passing of the Ordinance was required to be in charge of the management of the business for and on behalf of the Central Government.
The Ordinance contained detailed provisions for the carrying on of the life insur ance business by 189 the Government for the time being.
(2) is intended for the purpose of securing uniformity among them.
The second limb of sub section
(2) is the source of controversy before us.
It empowers the Central Government to reduce the remuneration payable or revise the other terms and conditions of service.
The question is whether the provision is confined to transferred employees only or extends to all employees generally.
In my opinion, it is confined to transferred employees.
The provision is a part of the scheme enacted in Chapter IV providing for the trans fer of existing life insurance business from the insurers to the Corporation, and the attendant concomitants of that process.
There is provision for the transfer of the assets and liabilities pertaining to the business, of provident funds, 206 superannuation and other like funds, of the services of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation and also of the services of existing employees of chief agents of the insurers to the Corporation, and finally for the payment of compensation to the insurers for the transfer of the busi ness to the Corporation.
They are all provisions relating to the process of transfer.
The standpoint of the second limb of the sub section, as its language plainly indicates, is provided by the inter ests of the Corporation and its policy holders.
For that reason, it is open to the Central Government under sub section to ignore the guarantee contained in sub section (1) of section 11 in favour of the employees, or anything contained in the , or any other law for the time being in force or any award, settlement or agree ment for the time being in force.
Benefits conferred there under on the employees must yield 207 to the need for ensuring that the Corporation and its policy holders do not suffer unreasonably from the burden of such benefits.
The need for such a provision arises because it is a burden by which the Corporation finds itself saddled upon the transfer a burden not of its own making.
Unless the statute provided for such relief, the weight of that burden could conceivably cripple the successful working of the Corporation from its inception as a business organisation.
It is a situation to be distinguished from what happens when the Corporation, launched on its normal course, voluntarily assumes, in the course of its working, obligation in respect of its employees or becomes subject to such obligations by reason of subsequent industrial adjudication.
Like any other employer, the Corporation is then open to the normal play of industrial relations in contemporary or future time.
That the two provisions of sub section
(2) are linked with the process of transfer and integration is further indicated by the circumstances that the power thereunder is vested in the Central Government.
The scheme of the sections in Chapter IV indicates generally that Parliament has appointed the Cen tral Government as the effective and direct instrumentality for bringing about the transfer and integration in the different sectors of that process.
There is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section (2) in respect of transferred employees being struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part 111 of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees.
So long as such order is confined to what is necessitated by the proc ess of transfer and integration, the transferred employees constitute a reasonably defined class in themselves and form no common basis with newly recruited employees." (underlining by us) emphasis supplied Pathak, J. also observed at Page 1136 thus: "Another point is whether the power under the second limb of sub section
(2) of section 11 can be exercised more than once.
Clearly, the answer must be in the affirmative.
To effectuate the transfer appropriately and completely it may be necessary to pass through different stages, and at each 208 stage to make a definite order.
So long as the complex of orders so made is necessarily linked with the process of transfer and integration, it is immaterial that a succession of orders is made.
I am not impressed by the circumstances that the original Bill moved in Parliament for amending sub section
(2) of section 11 contained the words "from time to time" and that these words were subsequently deleted when enact ment took place.
The intent of the legislative provision must be discovered primarily from the legislation itself.
" We have given extracts from the above decisions which are fairly long since they relate to the identical provi sions of law and also cover a large part of the arguments urged before us.
Having regard to the different conditions of service that were prevailing in the various establishments whose business was taken over by the Corporation it can hardly be disputed that the fixation of age of superannuation is one of the essential parts of the process of transfer and inte gration to which sub section (2) of section 11 of the Act is applicable.
The fixation of 60 years as the age of superan nuation in the case of transferred employees cannot be considered to be unreasonable in view of the history of this case.
The observation made by Pathak, J. in the course of his judgment that "there is no danger of an order made by the Central Government under the second limb of sub section (2) in respect of transferred employees.being struck down on the ground that it violates the equality provisions of Part III of the Constitution because similar action has not been taken in respect of newly recruited employees" is signifi cant.
A discrimination made by a State between the employees who are directly recruited to the service of the State and the employees whose services are taken over by the State on the taking over of the institutions where they were working has been held to be not unconstitutional by this Court in Ram Lal Wadhwa & Anr.
vs The State of Haryana & Ors., ; The facts of that case were these.
There were some schools run by municipal boards and district boards in the then State of Punjab which were taken over by the Punjab Government with effect from October 1, 1957.
The question involved in these appeals by special leave which are filed against the judgment dated August 17, 1985 of the High Court of Allahabad in Civil Miscellaneous Writ No. 6849 of 1984 relates to the constitu tional validity of regulation 19(2) of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Regulations, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as 'the (Staff) Regulations, 1960 '), as amended on 21.1.
The Ordinance was replaced by the which was published on 21st of March, 1956.
The longitudinal division of the employees was as follows.
All the transfer 200 red employees belonging to Class I and Class II became entitled to continue in service till they attained the age of 60 years subject of course to the power of the Corpora tion to retire any of them prematurely on completion of 55 years of age if his efficiency was found to have been im paired and all the Class I and Class II officers appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September, 1956 had to retire on completion of 58 years of age subject again to the power of the Corporation to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been im paired.
The employees of the Corporation were divided lati tudinally into two groups.
While the first limb of the sub section provides for securing uniformity among the transferred employees in regard to the scales of remu neration and other terms and conditions of service, the second limb provides that if after such uniformity has been secured, or even in the process of securing such uniformity, the Central Government finds that the interests of the Corporation and its policy holders require a reduction in the remuneration payable or revision of the other terms and conditions of service applicable to those employees, it may make an order accordingly.
In almost all the public sector corporations, Central services and State services 58 years age is considered to be a reasonable age at which officers can be directed to retire from their service.
So, the determination of 58 years as the age of superannuation by itself cannot be considered to be arbitrary.
We do not also find much substance in the contention of the 1st Respondent that there cannot be any discrimination as regards the age of retirement between the employees belonging to Class I and Class II on the one hand and Class III and Class IV on the other.
As it came to the notice of the Government that the Indian life insur ers, with a few exceptions, were virtually controlled by few individuals who were utilising the funds of those companies to the detriment of the industry and the policyholders, the Government decided to nationalise the life insurance busi ness.
Pursuant to the said decision, the President of India promulgated the Life Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordi nance, 1956 on January 19, 1956 providing for the vesting of the management of the life insurance business (which was called the controlled business under the Ordinance) which was being carried on by any insurer in India on that day in the Central Government and providing for its management.
The said Act was followed by the (Act 31 of 1956) (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act ') which was published in the Gazette on 18th June, 1956.
The Act, howev er, came into force on 1st July, 1956.
The Act provided for the establishment and incorporation of the Corporation.
The Corporation was accordingly established on 1st September, 1956.
Under the Act the expression 'appointed day ' is de fined as the date on which the Corporation is established.
The appointed day for the purposes of the Act is, therefore, September 1. 1956.
By virtue of section 7 of the Act on the appointed day all the assets and liabilities appertaining to the controlled business of all insurers, the management of which it had been taken over earlier by the Central Govern ment, stood transferred to and vested in the Corporation.
When the Corporation thus came into existence it had no employees of its own to carry on the vast business of the large number of insurers which had been taken over by it.
It, therefore, became necessary to transfer the services of the existing employees of the insurers to the Corporation because without the services of those employees it was almost impossible for the Corporation to run the life insur ance business in India which involved management of the various offices situated in different parts of India, serv icing of lakhs of insurance policies, the administration of the assets taken over from the insurers and several other activities connected with the life insurance business.
The nature of the work of the Corporation was such that it required the services of the employees with sufficient experience and expertise in running the life insurance business.
In order to meet the above need section 11 of the Act came to be enacted.
Section 11 of the Act originally stood as follows: "11.
Transfer of service of existing employees of insurers to the Corporation (1) Every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in the Corporation and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with his controlled business immediately before the appointed day shall, on and from the appointed day, become an employee of the Corporation, and shall hold his office therein by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privi leges as to pen 190 sion and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if this Act had not been passed, and shall continue to do so unless and until his employ ment in the Corporation is terminated or until his remuneration, terms and conditions are duly altered by the Corporation: Provided that nothing contained in this sub section shall apply to any such employee who has, by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to the ap pointed day, intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
(2) Notwithstanding anything con tained in sub section (1) or in any contract of service, the Central Government may, for the purposes of rationalising the pay scales of employees of insurers whose controlled business has been transferred to and vested in it or for the purpose of reducing the remuner ation payable to employees in cases where in the interest of the Corporation and its policyhold ers a reduction is called for, alter the terms of service of the employees as to their remuneration in such manner as it thinks fit; and if the alteration is not acceptable to any employee the Corporation may terminate his employment on giving him compensation equivalent to three months ' remuner ation unless the contract of service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
Explanation: The compensation payable to an employ ee under this sub section shall be in addition to and shall not affect any pension, gratuity, provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his contract of service.
(3) If any question arises as to whether any person was a whole time employee of an insurer or as to whether any employee was employed wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business of an insurer immediately before the appointed day the question shall be referred to the Central Government whose decision shall be final.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the (14 of 1947), or in any other 191 law for the time being in force, the transfer of the serv ices of any employee of an insurer to the Corporation shall not entitle any such employee to any compensation under that Act or other law, and no such claim shall be entertained by any Court, tribunal or other authority.
" Sub section (1) of section 11 of the Act provided that every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in the Corpora tion and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business immediately before the appointed day, i.e., September 1, 1956, would on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corpora tion, and would hold his office therein by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and condi tions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if the Act had not been passed, and would continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation was terminated and until his remunera tion, terms and conditions were duly altered by the Corpora tion.
The proviso to that sub section provided that nothing contained in sub section (1) of section 11 of the Act would apply to any such employee who had by notice in writing given to the Central Government prior to September 1, 1956 intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Corporation.
The whole time employees of the erstwhile insurers whose services were thus transferred to the Corpo ration are hereinafter referred to as 'the transferred employees ' of the Corporation.
As mentioned earlier, there were more than 200 insurers whose controlled business had been taken over by the Corporation and we are informed that there were about 27,000 whole time employees working in them.
The conditions of service of these transferred employ ees of the Corporation whose services were transferred to the Corporation under section 11(1) of the Act were not uniform.
It was naturally difficult to continue after the establishment of the Corporation in the cases of all the transferred employees, the conditions of service enjoyed by them when they were in the employment of the former insur ers.
The conditions governing the retirement of those offi cials with which we are concerned in these appeals were also diverse and different.
In some cases the age of retirement had been fixed at 55 years, in some at 58 years and in some others at 60 years.
In many cases the insurers had permitted their employees to continue in their service even beyond 60 years depending upon their efficiency and physical capacity.
The conditions of service of employees and in particular the terms of remuneration prevalent in some of the former 192 insurance organisations were also disadvantageous to the policyholders.
It, therefore became necessary to bring about uniformity in the conditions of service of the transferred employees.
