(1) of section 630 and for the recovery of such property by the issue of process under sub section (2), also extends to past officers and employees of the company and whether the Court trying the offence has the power to issue a process under sub section
(1) of section 630 of the Act makes it an offence where any officer or employee of a company wrongfully withholds possession of 175 such property of the company.
" The learned Judge (Ashok Agarwal, J.) observes that that has been the consistent view of the High Court and has referred to the subsequent decisions of Khatri j J. and Kurdukar, J.
Since the petitioner failed to vacate the flat, the company initiated proceedings for his eviction under the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised occupants) Act, 1971.
(a) and although it primarily refers to the existing officers and employees, it may also take in past officers and employees.
It would be noticed that cl.
The section is in two parts.
wrongfully withholds possession of it after the termination of his employment.
The beneficent provision contained in section 630 no doubt penal, has been purposely enacted by the legislature with the object of providing a summary procedure for retrieving the property of the company (a) where an officer or employee of a company wrongfully obtains possession of property of the company, or (b) where having been placed in possession of any such property during the course of his employment.
He had been allotted the premises of a flat, approximately 3,500 square feet in area, located at Mayfair Gardens, Little Gibbs Road, Bombay.
It is submitted that on a true construction, the scope and effect of the section was limited to such property of the company which was wrongfully obtained by an officer or employee of the company.
As the respondent Shipping Corporation of India, a public sector undertakings, was in dire need of the flat in question which is situate in a posh locality like the Cuffe Parade in 173 Bombay, for the use of its senior executive, we could not accede to the request of the learned counsel for the petitioner to refer the case to a bench of three judges and heard learned counsel for the parties at quit some length on August 27,1987 and dismissed the special leave petition.
(b) of sub section
It is further pleaded that the petitioner was given the flat for his residence during the period of his employment and that he was bound to vacate the same after his retirement.
The reasons therefor follow.
(a) of section 630(1) was referable to existing officer or employee of a company, while cl.
This is the function of cl.
Secondly, it is contended that the legislature never intended to include past officers and employees of a company within the ambit of section 630 of the Act which provides for prosecution of an officer or employee of a company for wrongfully withholding the property of the company inasmuch as it has used different languages where it was so intended, namely, in sections 538 and 545.
(b) relate to any property of a company as mentioned in cl.
(1) of section 630 which provide for the launching of a prosecution against an officer or employee of a company for wrongful possession of such property under cls.
Instead of availing of that opportunity, the petitioner on March 3, 1986 moved the High Court by a petition under article 226 of the Constitution and obtained ad interim stay of the proceedings before the Estate officer.
It is asserted that the petitioner with a dishonest intention is wrongfully with holding the flat and has instituted false and frivolous proceedings with the ulterior object of protracting and delaying the eviction proceedings.
The facts were also identical as here.
which is an offence under section 630(l)(b) of the Act, as rightly pointed out by V.S. Kotwal, J. in Harkishan Lakhimal Gidwani vs Achyut Kashinath Wagh (supra).
Case No. 76/S/1986 and dispose it of as expeditiously as possible and in any event, not later than four months from today.
Section 630 of the Act which makes the wrongful withholding of any property of a company by an officer or employee of the company a penal offence, is typical of the economy of language which is characteristic of the draughtsman of the Act.
(b) also makes it an offence if any officer or employee of a company having any property of the company in his possession knowingly applies it to purposes other than those expressed or directed in the articles and authorised by the Act.
In contrast, cl.
He had been inducted into the flat only by virtue of his capacity as the General Manager of the company 's branch office at Bombay but the company allowed him to retain the same on humanitarian grounds for a short period after his retirement to enable him to find alternative accommodation.
That appears to be one of the functions of cl.
In essence, the submission is that sub section
The Estate officer by order dated December 2, 1985 directed the eviction of the petitioner.
He was first allotted a service quarter.
That would primarily apply to the present officers and employees and may also include past officers and employees.
In particular, the learned judge referred to section 538 which provides for prosecution for offences by officers of companies in liquidation and uses the expression 'a past or present officer of a company etc. ', as also section 545 which provides for prosecution of delinquent officers and members of a company during the course of winding up and uses the words 'any past or present officer etc. ' Upon that basis, he observed that there was no reason to give a twisted and laboured interpretation to the provisions of section 630 of the Act which its plain reading does not permit.
We are informed that the petitioner has been deliberately and dishonestly withholding the flat covering an area of 1750 square feet in Cuffe Parade which is a posh area, valued at approximately Rs.30 lakhs and putting it to his own use contrary to the terms of his employment.
That has been the consistent view taken by the High Court of Bombay in a series of cases.
