The learned Judge recorded further that it was practice in the Court of Small Causes, Bombay of using the expression 1063 "B.C.".
This is a salutary test.
It was observed that the finding of the High Court that the respondent was in occupation of the premises under a subsisting licence was wholly wrong and suffered from serious infirmities of law and fact and deserved to be set aside.
We could not agree more.
He recorded further that he thought that "B.C." meant 'by consent '.
The learned Judge, noted that the only point that arose for consideration was whether the appellant proved that he was a sub tenant as such or not.
Our attention was drawn to a decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of Sohanlal Naraindas vs Laxmidas Raghunath Gadit, (68 Bombay Law Reporter 400) where Tarkunde, J. Observed that the intention of the parties and exclusive possession were important elements.
The learned Judge rejected the contention of the appellant that he was a tenant and having found that the period of licence had come to an end, he passed an order of eviction against the appellant.
For this purpose reference may be made to the language used and the restrictions put upon the use of the premises in question by the appellant.
If he was such a licensee, the non obstante clause of section 15A(1) give him the status and protection of a tenant in spite of there being anything to the contrary in any other law or in contract.
It was futher held that a person continuing in occupation of such premises after revocation of the licence was still liable to pay compensation or damages for its use and occupation.
To put precisely if an interest in immovable property entitling the transferee to enjoyment was created, it was a lease; if permission to use land without exclusive possession was alone granted, a licence was the legal result.
The High Court disallowed the special civil application under Article 227 of the Constitution on 17th of November, 1980 and that is the judgment impugned in this appeal.
This Court in Venkatlal G. Pittie & Anr.
See in this connection the observations of this Court in Satyanarayan Laxaminarayan Hegde and others vs Mallikarjun Bhavanappa Tirumale, A.I.R. 1960 S.C. 137.
It is further stipulated that the licensee shall pay the electric charges in respect of consumption of electricity and the rent of the said premises should be paid by the licensor only.
we are of the opinion that this was a licence and not a lease as we discover the intent.
It is interesting to note that in the judgment of the Small Cause Court and also of the High Court at several places the expression "B.C." was used; this is intriguing as we find that it intrigued Vaidya, J. because he stated in his judgment dated 9th of December, 1975 what the expression "B.C." was meant by Court.
It is further stipulated that the licensee would be entitled to keep the keys of the said premises with him and shall be at liberty to work in the said premises for twenty hours subject to restriction of rules and regulations imposed by the Municipal or any other local authority or authorities.
It was recorded by the court with the expression "B.C", a term of some ambiguity as explained later, that the appellant was not claiming protection as a sub tenant under the Rent Act but only the subtenancy as such and therefore, it was recorded that as agreed 'B.C '.
The solution that would seem to have been found is, as one would expect, that it must depend on the intention of the parties.
The period of leave and licence was to commence from 1st of September, 1965 to 31st of August, 1970 and it was further submitted that the licensee and the licensor shall not terminate the said agreement earlier save and except on the ground of breach of any of the terms and conditions written therein.
The appeal fails and is dismissed.
The agreement recited that the licensee shall not allow any other person to use and occupy the said premises and shall not do any unlawful or illegal business therein.
The trial Judge in the instant case passed a decree in ejectment petition filed by the respondent and ordered the appellant to vacate the premises before 31st of January, 1975.
In July, 1967 the appellants 1064 filed an application for eviction under section 41 of the .
