As regards the order of the Madh ya Pradesh High Court dated 4th April, 1983 .it may be point ed out that the said High Court in an earlier writ petiti on being Misc.
" It is against this judgment that Civil Appeal No. 441 of 1981 was preferred in this Court.
Apparently, after t he coming into force of the 107 order dated 28th December, 1965 and the circular dated 20 th January, 1966 promotions could not be made just on compl e tion of 2 years ' satisfactory service under the earli er circular dated 6th November, 1962 the same having be en superseded by the later circular.
5987 92 of 1986 were filed in this Court by the Union of India a nd were dismissed on 28th July, 1986.
If the appellants are promote d, they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
There will be no order as to costs.
They are as hereunder: "(i) pass appropriate orders directing the respondents to implement in true letter and spirit, the judgment of th is Hon 'ble Court dated 2.2.1981 in Civil Appeal No. 441 of 1 98 1; (ii) issue appropriate directions commanding the responden ts to promote the appellants to the next higher posts of Chargeman Grade I, Assistant Foreman, and Foreman, wi th effect from the date they are entitled to, after giving th em the benefit of the directions of this Hon 'ble Court dat ed 2.2.1981; (iii) issue appropriate directions to the respondents to give all consequential benefits to the appellants, includi ng payment of arrears.
He also brought to our notice a subsequent circular dated 20th January, 1966 by the Direct or General of Ordnance Factories who had issued.
This order will dispose of the appeal.
We are further of the opinion that it is not a fit case for initiating any proceedings for contempt again st the respondents.
It cannot be disputed that the Director General of Ordnance Factories who had issued the circular dated 6 th November, 1962 had the power to issue the subsequent circ u lar dated 20th January, 1966 also.
Against t he aforesaid judgment of the Madhya Pradesh High Court dat ed 4th April, 1983 Special Leave Petitions (Civil) Nos.
The effect of this change obviously was th at now only fifty per cent vacancis in the post of Depu ty Collector being available in place of all the vacancies it was to take almost double the time for many other allocat ed Tehsildars to get promoted as Deputy Collectors.
R.S.S. Petitions dismissed.
The findings of t he Madhya Pradesh High Court in its judgment dated 4th Apri l, 1983 thus stand approved by this Court.
At this place it will be usef ul to refer to an affidavit dated 19th November, 1983 of D. P. Gupta, who is one of the appellants in Civil Appeal No. 4 41 of 1981, filed in C.M.P. Nos.
The ord er dated 28th December, 1965 which provided a minimum period of service of three years in the lower grade for promotion to the next higher grade and the circular dated 20th Janua ry 1966 which provided that promotions in future will be e f fected in accordance with the normal rules and not merely on completion of 2 years ' satisfactory continuous service h ad the effect of doing away with the accelerated chance of promotion and relegating Supervisors 'A ' in the matter of promotion to the normal position as it obtained under t he Rules.
In the case of Ramchandra Shankar Deodhar & Ors ., (supra) the petitioners and other allocated Tehsildars fr om ex Hyderabad State had under the Notification of the R aj Pramukh dated September 15, 1955 all the vacancies in t he posts of Deputy Collector in the ex Hyderabad State avai l able to them for promotion but under subsequent rules of July 30, 1959 fifty per cent of the vacancies were to be filled by direct recruitment and only the remaining fif ty per cent were available for promotion and that too on div i sional basis.
This right was co n ferred by Rule 7 which inter alia provides that subject to the exception contained in Rule 11, vacancies in the pos ts enumerated therein will normally be filled by promotion of employees in the grade immediately below in accordance wi th the provisions of Rule 8.
We see no justific a tion for any such differential treatment being given to t he appellants.
There is a further averment in the said counter affidavit that pet i tioners were duly considered in their turn and their nam es were brought on the approved panel.
T he petitioners are also entitled to get their present sala ry re fixed after giving them notional seniority so that t he same is not lower than those who are immediately bel ow them.
In oth er words it resulted in delayed chance of promotion.
It appears that a lar ge number of persons have been promoted to those posts thou gh they have completed only two years of service.
For aught we know if the effect of the order dated 28 th December, 1965 and the circular dated 20th January, 1966 h ad been properly emphasised at the time of hearing of Civ il Appeal No. 441 of 198 1 its result may have been differen t.
They apparently did not fall in t he same category.
In this connection, reference may also be made to the cou n ter affidavit of Sobha Ramanand, Deputy Director, Ordnan ce Factory Cells G. Block, Ministry of Defence, filed in Wr it Petition (Civil) Nos.
They were thereaft er promoted as soon as vacancies became available and th at during the period that they were on the approved panel no person junior to them or of equal seniority superseded the m.
It was also brought to our notice that similar ly placed 125 employees got the benefit of the circular dat ed 6th November, 1962 in pursuance of an order passed by t he Madhya Pradesh High Court on 4th April, 1983 in writ pet i tions filed by them.
With regard to the plea based on Artic le 16 of the Constitution.
If there is a conflict between the executive instructions and the rul es made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, the rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India prevail, and if there is a co n flict between the rules made under the proviso to Artic le 309 of the Constitution of India and the law made by t he appropriate Legislature, the law made by the appropria te Legislature prevails.
The reliefs prayed for in the above two civil miscellaneo us petitions are thus of an interim nature.
It wa s, inter alia, urged on behalf of the petitioners that t he situation brought about by the rules of July 30, 1959 co n stituted variation to their prejudice in the conditions of service applicable to them immediately prior to the reorga n isation of the State and the Rules were consequently i n valid.
On the other han d, promotion depended, inter alia, on availability of posts a nd the incumbent being found fit by the Departmental Promoti on Committee for being included in the selection list.
It appears that the remaining 50 diploma holde rs recruited in 1963 and those who had been recruited in t he begning of 1964 or thereafter could not be promoted inasmu ch as by the time their cases could be considered for promoti on the subsequent order dated 28th December, 1965 had come in to force and had also come into force the circular dated 20 th January, 1966 which had superseded the circular dated 6 th November, 1962 and had provided that in future promotions of all such individuals will be effected in accordance with t he normal rules and not merely on the completion of two yea rs satisfactory continuous service.
If a large number of other persons similar ly situated have been promoted as Chargeman Grade II aft er completing two years of service, there is no reason why t he appellants should also not be similarly promoted aft er completing the same period of service.
V.A. Bobde, Shyam Mudaliar, V.M. Tarkunde, G.L. Sangh i, A.K. Sanghi, Mrs. R. Karanjawala, Mrs. Meenakshi Karanjawa la N.M. Popli and V.J. Francis for the Petitioners.
" The aforesaid writ petitions came up for hearing befo re a bench of two learned Judges of this Court on 9th Septe m ber, 1987.
vs Sh.
it case for initiating any procee d ings for contempt against the respondents.
We are not suggesti ng that the appellants are entitled to be promoted to t he aforesaid posts even if they are found unfit to be promote d.
Almost analogous prayer had been made in Miscellaneo us Petition No. 9357 of 1983 also namely that the responden ts may be restrained from promoting officers to the next high er posts on the basis of recommendations of certain Departme n tal Promotion Committees without complying with the dire c tions of this Court in its order dated 2nd February, 198 1.
