If the classification has reasonable nexus with the objective sought to be achieved, efficiency in the administration, the State would be justified in prescribing different pay scales.
It cannot be evaluated by the mere averments in the self serving affidavits or counter affidavits of the parties.
Unless it is shown that there is a discrimination amongst the same set of employees by the same master in the same establishment, the principle of "equal pay for equal work" cannot be enforced.
The principal claim of the petitioners therefore fails and is rejected.
Functions may be the same but the responsibilities make a difference.
It was pointed out that in service, merit or experience could be the proper basis for classification to promote efficiency in administration and he or she learns also by experience as much as by other means.
From the averments in the pleadings of the parties it will be clear that the Corporation has no regularly employed carpenters.
But it follows naturally that equal pay for unequal work will be a negation of that right." Thus the law relating to equal pay for equal work has been practically hammered out and very little remains for further innovation.
With these facts, we may now turn to the principle upon which the petitioners ' case is rested.
Reference may also be made to the decision in Federation of All India Customs and Central Excise Stenographers (Recognised) vs Union of India, ; There the Personal Assistants and Stenographers attached to the Heads of Department in Customs and Central Excise Department of the Ministry of Finance made a claim for parity of wages with the Personal Assistants and Stenographers attached to Joint Secretaries and Officers above them in Ministry of Finance.
The two jobs by the mere nomen clature or by the volume of work performed cannot be rated as equal.
He claimed equal salary for equal work at that of other drivers.
It is said that the village artisans and craftsmen make different items on a piece rate basis and in some cases, they execute the work in their own homes.
Evidently the petitioners are claiming wages payable to the carpenters in Government service.
The Court, therefore, cannot direct the Corporation to apply the rates prescribed under exhibit P. 2 unless the Government makes it applicable to employees of the Corporation.
Apart from giving training, the Corporation also ensures marketing support to the artisans and craftsmen by purchasing their products at remunerative prices and sell them through the marketing network of the Corporation.
We have carefully perused the material on record and gave our anxious consideration to the question urged.
Apart from that, the Court has expressly observed that the higher pay scale to avoid stagnation or resultant frustration for lack of promotional avenues may also be allowed.
Reference may be made to: (i) State of U.P. vs J.P. Chaurasia, ; and (ii) Meva Ram Kanojia vs All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Anr., ; In Chaurasia case the question arose whether it was permissible to have two different pay scales in the same cadre of Bench Secre taries of the Allahabad High Court who were for all practi cal purposes performing similar duties and having same responsibilities.
Article 14 permits reasonable classification rounded on rational basis.
