The use of the expression "cost" could not obviously be by way of reference to packing for which the cost is incurred by the buyer.
The explanation to the said sub section defines the expression "packing" as the wrapper, container, bobbin, pirn, spool, reel or warp beam or any other thing in which or on which the excisable goods are wrapped, contained or wound.
The value of the aforesaid drums should, therefore, be excluded from the assessable value for the purpose of excise duty.
Relying on the two decisions referred to hereinbe fore, learned Attorney General emphasised that percentages of sales would not in any manner affect determination of the assessable value of the excisable goods.
For the purposes of this sub clause, the amount of the duty of excise payable on any excisable goods shall be the sum total of (a) the effective duty of excise payable on such goods under this Act; and (b) the aggregate of the effective duties of excise payable under other Central Acts, if any, providing for the levy of duties of excise on such goods , and the effective duty of excise on such goods under each Act referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) shall be, (i) in a case where a notification or order providing for any exemption (not being an exemption for giving credit with respect to, for reduction or duty of excise under such Act on such goods equal to, any duty of excise under such Act, or the additional duty under Section 3 of the (51 of 1975), already paid] on the raw material or component parts used in the production or manufacture of such goods) from the duty of excise under such Act is for the time being in force, the duty of excise computed with refer ence to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods as reduced so as to give full and complete effect to such exemption; and (ii) in any other case, the duty of excise computed with reference to the rate specified in such Act in respect of such goods.
Section 3 of the Act provides that there shall be levied and collected in such manner as maybe pre scribed duties of excise on all excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India. "Excisable goods", under section 2(d) of the Act, means goods specified in the Schedule to the as being subject to duty of excise and includes salt.
4339 41 of 1986) the value of such drums/containers would also have to be included on a correct interpretation of charging sections, namely, sec tions 3 and 4 of the Act.
There fore, the rental of the same though income of ancillary activity, was not the value incidental to the manufacture and could not be included in the assessable value.
The same were allowed by the Collector (Appeals).
The appellant was not a manufacturer of drums.
Explanation.
It may be necessary in this connection to refer to the observations of this Court in Union of India & Ors.
In my opinion also, the above conclusion reached on the language of section 4(4)(d)(i) of the Act is sufficient to allow these appeals.
A.N. Sen, J., who agreed with Pathak, J., observed that on a proper construction of section 4(4)(d)(i), it was clear that any secondary packing done for the purpose of facilitating transport and smooth transit of the goods to be delivered to the buyer in the wholesale trade could not be included in the value for the purpose of assessment of excise duty.
The respondent supplied these gases in cylinders at their factory gate.
This Court rejected the contention of the assessee in that case that because the levy of excise is a levy on goods manufactured or produced, the value of an excisable article must be limited to the manufacturing cost plus manufacturing profit.
So it is open to Parliament to prescribe any measure by reference to which the charge is to be levied and this is what is done under section 4.
vs Union of India & Ors., ; and Bhor Industries Ltd., Bombay vs Collec tor of Central Excise, Bombay; , In order, therefore, to be manufacture, there must be activity which brings transformation to the article in such a manner that different and distinct article comes into being which is known as such in the market.
However, if any special secondary packing is provided by the assessee at the in stance of a wholesale buyer which is not generally provided as a normal feature of the wholesale trade, the cost of such special packing would not be includible in the value of the goods.
He reminded us of the oft quoted truism that, in tax matters, one has to look at what is said and that there is no question of any intend ment, implication, equity or liberality in construing the taxing provision.
The scheme of the old section 4 is indisputedly to determine the assessable value of the goods on the basis of the price charged by the assessee, less certain abatements.
In that case, the respondent therein manufactured cigarettes in their factories.
Reliance was placed for this proposition by the learned Attorney General on the observations of this Court in Gur Sahai Sehgal vs Commissioner of Income Tax, Punjab, ; at 898.
It is only that degree of secondary packing which is necessary for assessable articles to be in the condition in which it is generally sold in the wholesale market which can be included at the factory gate which should be included in the value of the article.
The said decision, according to learned Attorney General, was concerned with the rentals of certain oxygen gas cylinders supplied by the assessee.
Learned Attorney General emphasised that it is a well settled principle of construction that in taxing statutes one has only to look merely at what is clearly stated.
The relevant provi sion of section 4 of the Act deals with the manner as to how the value is to be computed and section 4(4)(d) stipulates as follows: ""value" in relation to any excisable goods, (i) where the goods are delivered at the time of removal in a packed condition, includes the cost of such packing except the cost of the packing which is of a durable nature and is returnable by the buyer to the assessee.
Furthermore, no cost was, in fact, incurred by the assessee.
Where the manufacturer supplies his own container or drum but does not charge the customer therefore, then the price of the goods will also include the cost of the con tainer.
vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., (supra) dealing with the aspect of secondary packing, where this Court reiterated that the degree of secondary packing which is necessary for putting the excisable article in which it is sold in the wholesale market at the factory was the degree of packing where the cost would be included in the value of the goods for the purpose of excise duty.
Hence, according to the appellant, it is not necessary for the said fusel oil/Styrene Monomer to be supplied to the customers in drums in the aforesaid situation.
Reliance may be placed to the observations of this Court at pp.
For this reason, I agree with Rangana than, J. that the wider propositions canvassed by the two sides including the question of correctness of the view relating to secondary packing taken in Union of India vs Godfrey Phillips India Ltd., raised by the learned Attorney General need not be considered and decided in these matters.
If in order to be able to put it on the market, a certain amount of packing or user of containers or wrappers or putting them either in drums or containers, are required, then the value or the cost of such wrapper or container or drum must be included in the assess able value and if the price at which the goods are sold does not include that value then it must be so included by the very force of the terms of the Section.
According to the learned Attorney General, the fact that 90% of the goods were supplied in tankers and not in containers had no relevance at all and the 10% represent ed the entire quantity of excisable goods delivered in packed condition.
It was contended by Shri Salve, appearing on behalf of the appellant, that on a correct analysis of section 4(4)(d), the duty being on the activity of manufacture whatever is necessary to bring the goods into existence alone can be taken into account for duty purposes.
Here also obviously, the reference is not generally to the taxes payable on such goods by either the assessee or the buyer but is obviously to the taxes payable by the assessee.
Therefore, it was held that the "value" of the excisable article has to be computed with reference to the price charged by the manufacturer, the computation being made in accordance with the terms of section 4.
I agree with Mukharji, J. that this con tention cannot be accepted.
Collector of Central Excise, Panaji & Ors., as also the decision of the Karnataka High Court in Alembic Glass Industries Ltd. vs Union of India & Ors., Learned Attorney General urged before us that the question whether for determining the assessable value of the excisable goods sold by the assessee in drums or containers provided by its customers (the asses see itself provided such drums/containers on payment of price in Civil Appeals Nos.
The revenue 's case was that the no tional value of deposit was rental and hence should be included in computing the assessable value.
In construing section 4(4)(d)(i), all that has to be seen is whether the goods are delivered in packed condition.
If the answer is yes, three kinds of situation may arise.
If this question is answered in the affirmative, then, in respect of the goods so sold, the cost of packing, whether incurred by the manufacturer or by the supplier, has to be automatically included in the assessable value if necessary, by addition to the sale price, except only where the packing is of durable nature and returnable to the manufacturer.
In the aforesaid view of the matter, I am of the opinion that these appeals have to be allowed and the orders of the Tribunal set aside.
These were only employed, it was emphasised by the majority of the Judges, for the purpose of avoiding damage or injury during transit.
The manufac ture of the goods was complete before these were placed in drums.
It was submitted that while deter mining the scope and nature of levy, as contemplated under section 3 of the Act, of central excise and the measure of such levy as provided in section 4 of the Act the principles laid .down in Union of India vs Bombay Tyre International Ltd., (supra), should be followed and reliance was placed on the several decisions of this Court which we will refer to later.
There was evidence that 90% of the goods were deliv ered at the time of removal without being put in drums.
Excise duty, as has been reiterated and explained, is a duty on the act of manufacture.
