PW 3, the Principal has averred in unequivocal terms that Ex.
The appellant has reiterated the contentions before us.
The decisions of the Court in State of Rajasthan vs Mohamed Habeeb, ; C.I. Ernden vs State of Uttar Pradesh; , and Lohana Kantilal vs State, AIR 1954 Saurashtra 12 1 were referred to.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant proves the guilty conduct of the appel lant in view of the presumption arising under section 4(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act which has not been rebutted.
The learned counsel appearing for the appellant, however, maintained that the appellant had a consistent case even from the earliest opportunity that the currency notes found in his possession was the money returned by PW 1, the cir cumstances of the case would probabalise this case of the appellant and the presumption, if any, arising under section 4 is rebutted and the conviction cannot therefore be sus tained.
Unless, there fore, the explanation is supported by proof, the presumption created by the provision cannot be said to be rebutted.
was guilty.
The High Court thought that though the conviction under section 161 I.P.C. and section 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act is to be maintained, no separate sentence need be award ed under section 161 I.P.C.
When PW 1 emerged, PW 6 along with PW 2 confronted the appellant.
it must further be shown that the explanation is a true one.
The Trial Court accepted the prosecution evidence, rejected the plea of the appellant and recorded the conviction.
It took the view that the evidence of PW 1 find corroboration in the testimony of PW 2 and 6 and the contemporary records.
The burden resting on the accused person in such a case would not be as light as it is where a presumption is raised under section 114 of Evidence Act and cannot be held to be discharged merely by reason of the fact that the explanation offered by the accused is reasonable and probable.
This conduct of the appellant is clearly incon sistent with the transaction of loan or return of money by PW 1. 338 This Court observed in Dhanvantrai Balwantrai Desai vs State of Maharashtra, AIR 1964 SC 575 as under: "Where any gratification (other than legal gratification) or any valuable thing is proved to have been received by an accused person the court is required to draw a presumption that the person received that thing as a motive of reward such as is mentioned in section 161, I.P.C. Therefore, the Court has no choice in the matter, once it is established that the accused person has received a sum of money which was not due to him as a legal remuneration.
These contentions did not find favour with the High Court.
We find no merit in the appeal.
The case that has been developed in the course of the trial is not that of a loan transaction but payment of an advance of Rs. 125 in the canteen when the appellant started to take food there.
The recovery of the currency notes from the appellant was not challenged.
PW 3, the Principal of the training school issued exhibit P 2 show cause notice to the PW 1, Venkataswamy, the canteen contractor, as to why his licence for running the canteen should not be cancelled.
PW 3, the Principal produced the concerned file relating to show cause notice, from the house of the appellant on the same day.
