In confirming the view of the High Court the Privy Council made the observations to which we have just referred.
Consistently with this new version the appellant has added in his evidence that when he met her at Mandya during her illness she reminded him that she had asked him to make a will for quite some time and she insisted that the draft should be prepared without any delay.
The appellant then applied for and obtained a certificate from the High Court that the decision under 433 appeal is one of reversal and it involves a claim respecting properties of the value of not less than Rs. 20,000.
On this evidence we are not prepared to hold that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that it was not shown that the testatrix fully 462 understood the contents of the will and put her signature on the instrument intending that the recitals and the dispositions in the will should be her recitals and dispositions.
In our opinion, the evidence given by the appellant on this point is clearly an after thought and his story that he had received previous instructions cannot be accepted as true.
Subsequently it was attested by two witnesses Krishnamurthy Rao (P. W. 1) and Narasimha Iyengar (P. W. 2).
Jaya was married to Kalbagal Junior.
429 Respondents 2 to 5 have not appeared in the proceedings.
The appellant, however, did not find time to get the will written.
She contended that the will had been brought into existence through the machinations of the appellant and she disputed the appellant 's right to bring the present suit.
According to her, the gift deed (exhibit D) did not provide for devolution of interest by survivorship; she pleaded that Lakshmamma had transferred all her interests in the properties comprised in the gift deed in favour of her husband Sadagopalachar who then became their sole owner.
Both of them are dead.
Against this decree respondent I preferred an appeal in the High Court of Mysore; and the appellant filed cross objections.
In conclusion their Lordships differed from the view of the appeal court that there had been a complete failure of the proof that the deed poll correctly represented the intentions of the testator or that he understood or approved of its contents and so they thought that there were no grounds for excluding from the probate the passages in the will which referred to that deed.
The High Court thought that the learned trial judge had not fully considered all the material bearing on this point and so was in error in holding that at the relevant date Lakshmamma had a subsisting interest in half the share even in the suit properties, items 1 and 2.
The appellant had the draft in his hand from which he dictated to the scribe Chokkanna (P. W. 3) who wrote the will.
