Appendix 3 Part A relates to raw materials, components, consumables, tools and spares (other than Iron and Steel and Ferro Alloys) and part B of the said Appendix deal with raw materials (Iron and Steel and Ferro Alloys).
Before we conclude, we may take note of the recent decision of this Court in B. Vijay Kumar & Co. etc.
While construing the aforesaid direction contained in its order dated April 18, 1985, in Rajnikant Brothers case (supra) this Court has held that the grantees of the Additional licences were not only prohibited from importing items which were excluded under the Export Policy 1978 79 but also from importing items excluded under the Import Policy prevailing at the time of import and that the word "banned" was intended to take in terms which were banned altogether as well as items which were banned for import by the holder of an Additional licence.
We are of the opinion that this Court did not say that canalisation could be ignored.
Ltd wherein it is stated that this licence is valid for import of items as per para 215 of Import & Export Policy 1988 91 subject to restrictions/conditions laid down therein.
That 247 was not the issue before this Court.
The expression 'whether canalised or not canalised ' was to include both.
vs Union of India & Ors.
; In Union of India vs M/s. Godrej Soaps Pvt. Ltd. & Anr., ; this Court construed the words 'whether canalised or otherwise ' contained in the order dated April 18, 1985, passed in Rajnikant Brothers case (supra) and it was observed that the Court would not know whether in the future certain canalised items could be imported directly by an Export House holding an Additional licence and that the possibility of a policy being framed in the future enabling an Export House holding an Additional licence to directly import items which are `non canalised ' and also item which are `canalised ' could not be ruled out and it was in this light that the Court can be said to have used the words "whether canalised or otherwise" in the order dated April 18, 1985.
Shri Salve has invited our attention to the Import Licence dated November 21, 1988 issued in favour of M/s. Suraj Diamonds Industries Pvt.
It has been urged that the petitioners as well as the said license, namely, M/s. Suraj Diamonds Industries Pvt. Ltd. are persons similarly situate and whereas M/s. Suraj Diamonds Industries Pvt. Ltd. have been granted an Additional licence whereunder, it is permissible to import items as per para 215 of the Import & Export Policy 1988 91, the said facility has been denied to the petitioners and that the petitioners have been subjected to arbitrary and hostile discrimination.
The Court never did and could not have said that canalised items could be imported in any manner not permitted nor it could have given a go bye to canalisation policy".
Therefore, the wrong was undone.
T.N.A. Petitions dismissed.
In view of the special facts and circumstances of the case and specially having regard to the findings of the Appellate Tribunal that the appellants imported canalised items bona fide, this Court set aside the orders of the Collector and the Appellate Tribunal with regard to confiscation of goods and imposition of redemption fine without dealing with the submissions of learned counsel for the parties with regard to the interpretation and the effect of the earlier judgments of this Court in Raj Prakash Chemicals case (supra), Indo Afghan case (supra), Godrej Soap case (supra) and D. Navinchandra & Co. case (supra).
While the said appeal and the other writ petition (filed by the petitioners viz. writ petition No. 459 of 1988 herein) were pending in the Bombay High Court, this Court decided Civil Appeal No. 1423 of 1984, Union of India vs Rajnikant Brothers, and other connected matters by order dated April 18, 1985, wherein it was observed that there was no requirement of diversification of exports as a condition for the grant of Export House Certificates in theImport Policy for the year 1978 1979, and the authorities were directed to issue necessary Export Certificates for the year 1978 79.
This was a measure of restitution, but the Court while doing so, ensured that nothing illegal was done." (P.1000) After referring to the decision in Raj Prakash Chemicals Ltd. (supra) this Court has stressed: "The items had to pass to two tests, firstly, they should have been importable under the import policy 1978 79 and secondly they should also have been importable under the import policy 1985 88 in terms of the Order dated 18th April, 1985, and if one may add, in such terms 'in accordance with the import rules ' whether canalised or not canalised." (P. 1001) This Court has gone on to emphasise: "It must be emphasised that in the Order dated 18th April, 1985, this Court did not do away with canalisation.
(3) The Additional licences issued prior to 1.4.1988 240 shall cease to be valid for import of items of raw materials, components and spares which appeared in Parts I and II of List 8, Appendix 6 of Import Export Policy, 1985 88, but are not now covered by Part I of List 8, Appendix 6 of this Policy.
vs Collector of Central Excise and Customs, ; The appellants therein had been granted Additional Import licence in pursuance of this Court 's order dated April 18, 1985 in Rajnikant Brothers, case (supra) and had imported canalised items under the said licence.
In other words it would depend on the terms of the import policy prevailing at the time of import.
The expression 'net foreign exchange earnings ' has been defined as the total f.o.b. value of admissible exports minus the c.i.f. value of Advance/Imprest (including Diamond Imprest/DTC Imperest) Licences/Import Export Pass Books (excluding Special Imprest Import Export Pass Book) if any issued, and the REP licences issued or the eligibility thereto, during the preceding three licensing years.
(7) Additional licences issued to Export Houses/Trading Houses prior to 1.4.1988 will also be valid within their overall value, for import of raw materials, components, consumables and spares appearing in Appendix 6, List 8, Part A of this Policy.
petitions No. 20021 22 of 1986 in civil appeal No. 2924/1984; and the decision dated 15.4.1987 in the writ petition No. 1483 of 1987 filed by M/s. D. Naveen Chandra & Company.
As indicated earlier, the licences issued to the petitioners were valid for a period of twelve months and the said period has expired during the pendency of these writ petitions.
In D. navinchandra & Co. case (supra) this Court has not laid down that Export Houses, like the petitioners, who are granted Additional licences on the basis of the order Dated April 18, 1985, are to be treated at par with Export Houses who are granted Additional licences under Import & Export Policy prevalent at the time of import.
This decision is, therefore, a decision based on the facts of that particular case only.
The writ petition and the appeal were decided by the Bombay High Court in accordance with the aforesaid decision of this Court in the case of Union of India vs Rajnikant Brothers, (supra) and the High Court directed the authorities to grant Export House Certificates to the petitioners under the Import Policy 1978 79 within three months.
They would be entitled to import items which were canalised or not if the import policy prevailing at the time of import permitted them to import items falling under such category.
vs Union of India & Ors.
