543 4.
The alienees have no right created under the alleged sale deeds.
Rs 77,124 being the amount paid by the alienees before the Sub Registrar in respect of the sale deeds shall be deposited within the same period in the Trial Court and the alienees of the different sale deeds would be entitled to withdraw the amounts on the basis of the record made by the Sub Registrar on each of the sale deeds.
Admittedly, the transfers are pendente lite.
He sought to rely on certain decisions which on being referred to were found to be totally inapplicable to the facts of the case.
The alienees shall deliver vacant possession of the property by 30th of April, 1991, to Seshiah and in the event of failure to do so the Trial Court is directed by our present order to deliver vacant possession of the entire property in suit including those which are covered by the sale deeds in favour of the alienees to Seshiah within one month therefrom.
With a view to settling all equities between the parties and with the consent of Seshiah who is present in Court, and counsel for the sons and after hearing the Advocate for the alienees, we make the following directions: 1.
The alienees have made an attempt to hold out that there were agreements for sale prior to the compromise for which there is no acceptable evidence.
The factum of compromise is not in dispute.
One of the stipulation in the compromise deed which has admittedly been signed by the father and his two sons stipulates: "The petitioner has given to the second and third respondents (the two sons) an amount of Rs. 1 lakh each and the second and third respondents have received the same." In the face of such a statement in the compromise deed signed by the parties the second respondent had disputed the fact of payment and has, in the meantime, alienated about 81 acres of property which constitutes the subject matter of dispute to third parties.
We direct that the compromise petition shall be accepted and in terms thereof the suit shall be disposed of and the terms of the compromise shall form part of the order to be drawn up in this Court for disposing of the special leave petition.
In view of the fact that there was the allegation of payment of Rs. 1 lakh to Sudarshan Gupta which we have not investigated and to meet the further allegation that some improvements have been made to the property which too we have not gone into, we direct that the mesne profits shall be set off against the same.
The question as to recording of the compromise was taken up by the Court and parties have been heard.
