If he fails to do so and suppresses material facts, his application is liable to be dismissed.
R.P. SLPs dismissed.
These petitions were dismissed by a learned Single Judge of that High Court on November 29, 1988.
In our view, the said interim orders have a direct bearing on the question raised and the non disclosure of the same certainly amounts to suppression of material facts.
On September 11, 1985, the petitioners obtained an interim order from this Court directing status quo with regard to the possession of the lands in question in Special Leave Petition No. 294 of 1985 preferred against the order of the Karnataka High Court dated August 14, 1984, with which we are not directly concerned here.
Appeals against the decision of a learned Single Judge were dismissed by the Karnataka High Court on October 6, 1989, by a Division Bench of that High Court.
On this ground alone, the Special Leave Petitions are liable to be rejected.
Curiously enough, there is no reference in the Special Leave Petitions to any to the stay orders and we came to know about these orders only when the respondents appeared in response to the notice and filed their counter affidavit.
The relevant dates which have to be borne in mind in this connection, are as follows: The notification making the declaration under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act in respect of the lands in question was made on September 20, 1977.
It is well settled in law that the relief under Article 136 of the Constitution is discretionary and a petitioner who approaches this Court for such relief must come with frank and full disclosure of facts.
In these two writ petitions, the Karnataka High Court granted interim stay of further proceedings in respect of the acquisition of the said lands.
Under the first proviso to Section 11 A it was prescribed that where the said declaration (under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act) has been published before the commencement of the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1984, the award must be made within a period of two years from such commencement.
Thus, the award should have been made within two years from September 20, 1984.
The said Special Leave Petition No.294 of 1985 was dismissed on April 29, 1987.
On September 20, 1984 Section 11 A which introduced into the Land, Acquisition Act by the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1984, was brought into force.
