As section 18 (1) of the Act was not applicable he convicted him under section 19(2) of the Act and sentenced him, in view of his old age and blindness, to one day 's simple imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 30,000.
Section 18 deals with the grant, renewal or continuance of a lease of any premises or the giving of his consent by the landlord to the transfer of a lease by sub lease or otherwise, and it provides that the landlord, who receives any fine, premium, or other like sum or deposit, or any consideration for the grant, renewal or continuance or the accord of consent oh would be guilty of an offence and liable to the punishment therein specified.
But in the case of relinquishment, it cannot be a unilateral transaction; it can only be in favour of the lessor by mutual agreement between them.
" It was urged that the offence arises only on receipt of any sum or any consideration as a condition of the relin quishment by a tenant of his tenancy and that in the present case there was no such relinquishment.
The relinquishment of a tenancy is equivalent to surrender by the lessee or tenant of his rights as such.
The appellant was charged under section 18(1) of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, LVII of 1947, for receiving a pugree of Rs. 29,500 and he was further charged under section 19(2) of the said Act for receiving the said sum as a condition for the relin quishment of his tenancy.
Then follows section 19 which speaks of the relinquishment of his tenancy of any premises by a tenant.
The learned Solic itor General urged that 'the word "relinquishment" was not a term of art and was used in the section not in any strict technical sense but in its comprehensive meaning as giving up of possession of the premises; and he pointed out that if it was intended by the legislature that "relinquish ment" should have the limited meaning sought to be placed upon it on behalf of the appellant, the word "surrender" used in the Transfer of Property Act would have been more appropriate.
