Those provisions proceed on the assumption that certain laws passed under the Government of India Act, 1935, did offend section 299 of that Act and expressly save those Acts.
That ' rule provides that a mining lease granted by a private person shall be subject to certain conditions therein specified.
The Abolition Act was enacted by the Madras Legislature in exercise of the legislative power con ferred on it by the Government of India Act, 1935.
It is said that the words " such right " in the third proviso relate to the rights mentioned in the second proviso, that is to say, rights created on or after July 1, 1945.
In other words, while under the second proviso the Government can terminate the lease at its option and unconditionally, under proviso (iii) that can be done only if it is in (1) I.L.R. ,1195.
In our view the scheme of the Act is to render ineffective all rights created after July 1, 1945, for a period exceeding one year.
The principal question canvassed before us is that the termination of the appellant 's lease by the order dated December 27, 1955, was bad as it did not give three months ' notice to the appellant or provide for any compensation as required by section 20 of the Abolition Act.
(1) Saving of rights of certain lessees and others.
In other words, the third proviso, according to learned counsel 559 for the appellant, merely enables the Government to exercise the right conferred on it by the second proviso and therefore, the Government, if it intends to avail itself of the right under the second proviso, must comply with the conditions laid down in the third proviso.
The reason for conferment of such an unconditional right on the Government is well known, for it was on that crucial date that the party which came into power later declared its intention to abolish all zemindaries and intermediary interest in land.
If the third proviso also applies to such leases, as the petitioners contend, then the lease can be terminated only if the Government is satisfied that it is in the public interest that it should be terminated and that further, in such cases, the lessee will also be entitled to compensation under section 20(2).
In out opinion, there is no substance in the principal point urged by learned counsel appearing for the appellant before us.
In other words, the true meaning of the second proviso is said to be that rights created after July 1, 1945, are only voidable at the instance of the Government and that being the position, the Government must do some overt act to terminate the transaction.
