the state of manipur had not framed any recruitment rules for appointment inter alia in the revenue department and in particular the field staff thereof.
the commissioner allegedly made certain appointments in the posts of mandols process servers and zilladars which was not within the knowledge of the state.
appointments were made on 11 09 199722 11 1997 and 5 12 1997 a sample copy of the offer of appointment reads as under no 11497 com rev on the recommendation of d p c and under the directives issued by the honourable gauhati high court the following persons are hereby appointed as mandols on temporary basis in the scale of pay of rs 950 20 1150 eb 25 1400 per month with usual allowances against thereto existing clear vacancies of mandals under revenue department from the date of their joining on duties.
2 further they are posted at the places indicate against their names 3 the expenditure is debitable under appropriate heads of accounts of the departments offices concerned.
an inquiry was therefore made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
shri tayeng by a uo note dated 12 01 1998 denied to have made such an appointment stating confidential u o no 21593 com r pt.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
i therefore deny making of such appointments.
a r khan secretary revenue has made many appointments of mandols process servers zilladars in the recent months against which i have been complaining that the secretary revenue has no power or authority to make any appointments of field staff as per rules provided under m l r act1960 in this regard i have apprised the matter to the honourable minister revenue already and also informed the chief secretary manipur explaining that the secretary revenue can not make such appointments of field staffs even if he wanted to do so all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the honourable minister revenue his action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
he has been making false and wrong allegations against the commissioner revenue and putting him false position.
i still deny that i have made any appointment of field staffs of revenue department during the recent months.
submitted for information and consideration.
commissioner revenue.
in view of the aforementioned stand taken by the said shri tayeng the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents were cancelled by an order dated 17 02 1998 a corrigendum thereto was however issued on 21 02 1998 stating no 21593 comrev.
in civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005the respondents were appointed on ad hoc basis for a period of six months.
the respondents herein filed writ petitions before the high court on 4 06 1998 questioning the said order of cancellation of their appointments.
the said shri tayeng retired on 28 02 1998 despite the fact that he in his uo note dated 12 02 1998 addressed to the minister of revenue denied to have made any appointment when approached by the writ petitioners respondents he affirmed in their support an affidavit in the high court stating 3 that while i was functioning as revenue commissioner manipur matters relating to appointment on the recommendation of the d p c transfer etc were put up to me in files and i used to pass order on the basis of facts presented to me in file.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
as stated above i was transferred and posted to the manipur electronics development corporation during 1997.
4 that after my retirement some of the writ petitioners civil rule no 568 of 1998came to me and show copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit of the respondent no 12 and 3 i have gone through the copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit and annexures thereto.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
dated 11 9 97 annexure a2 to the writ petition appointing 4 persons to the post of mandol are perused by me minutely.
i submit that these appointment orders annexures a1 and a2 bear my signature initial and appear to have been issued under my signature.
the writ petitions filed by the respondents herein were allowed by a learned single judge of the high court opining i the principles of natural justice having not been complied with the impugned orders can not be sustained.
however it was observed however it is further made clear that the state respondent are at liberty to initiate or take up any appropriate legal action in the matter pertaining to their alleged fake appointments in their respective posts in accordance with law and pass necessary order after affording reasonable opportunity of being heard to them.
so far as the matter relating to civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005 is concerned it was directed that as the appointment of the respondents were made for a period of six months the employees were only entitled to the salary for the said period.
air 1958 sc 36 1957 indlaw sc 103murugayya udayar and another.
1991 supp 1 scc 331 1991 indlaw sc 904 and kumari shrilekha vidyarthi and others v state of u p and others 1991 1 scc 212 1990 indlaw sc 463.
the posts of field staffs of the revenue department of the state of manipur were thus required to be filled up having regard to the said constitutional scheme.
we would proceed on the assumption that the state had not framed any recruitment rules in terms of the proviso appended to art 309 of the constitution of india but the same by itself would not clothe the commissioner of revenue to make recruitments in violation of the provisions contained in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents herein were cancelled inter alia on the premise that the same had been done without the knowledge of the revenue department of the state.
as noticed hereinbefore an inquiry had been made wherein the said shri tayeng the then commissioner of revenue stated that no such appointment had been made to his knowledge.
if the offers of appointments issued in favour of the respondents herein were forged documents the state could not have been compelled to pay salaries to them from the state exchequer.
any action which had not been taken by an authority competent therefor and in complete violation of the constitutional and legal framework would not be binding on the state.
in any event having regard to the fact that the said authority himself had denied to have issued a letter there was no reason for the state not to act pursuant thereto or in furtherance thereof.
even assuming that dpc would mean selection committee there is noting on record to show who were its members and how and at whose instance it was constituted.
even the affidavit affirmed by shri tayeng before the high court in this behalf is silent.
he therefore was wholly incompetent to issue the appointment letters.
35 it is now too well settled that every state action in order to survive must not be susceptible to the vice of arbitrariness which is the crux of art 14 of the constitution and basic to the rule of law the system which governs us.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
his work is also subject to strict supervision.
cl 2 protects government servants against being dismissed or removed or reduced in rank without being given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to them.
