in january 2001the appellant filed yet another suit before the high court of judicature at madras for permanent injunction restraining the first respondent from offering shares to the public as claimed in the initial public offer ipo using infosys.
the first respondent then filed three separate applications before the madras high court inter alia under sections 46 and 56 of the trade and merchandise marks act1958.
a whether the mark applied for registration was used in respect of the goods for which the mark was registered.
b whether the respondent had a bonafide intention to use the mark applied for under section 18 of the trade and merchandise marks act.
cwhether the mark registered in favour of the respondent is a service mark.
dwhether there is a non use of registered trade mark by the respondent for a period of over 5 years and 1 month.
ewhether the registered trade mark is disentitled for protection in a court of law under section 11e of the trade and merchandise marks act.
g whether the respondent has committed fraud while obtaining registration of the mark and.
in that suit the appellant also made an application for grant of temporary injunction.
heard.
i am of the opinion that in case ex parte ad interim orders are not granted the relief claimed itself may be rendered infructuous.
accordingly it is directed that pending further consideration of the matter after notice for the next date of hearing the defendants are restrained by themselves their directors employees agents andor others acting on its behalf from using the trade mark corporate name infosys or any other mark name deceptively similar trade mark or colourable imitation thereof as a mark andor corporate name or as part of a mark andor business name in respect of goods andor services for publicity on propaganda on websites and or in domain names in any way whatsoever thereby causing infringement of the registered trade mark infosys of the plaintiff in isolation or in combination with words letters numbers their advertisements as part of their corporate name either in isolation or in goods and services or in or by way of any advertisement publicity campaigns etc.
compliance of order xxxix rule 3 cpc within three days.
in that suit an affidavit came to be filed by the first respondent wherein it was stated that the name of the company has been changed from jupiter infosys limited to jupiter international limited and a certificate to that effect has been issued by the registrar of companies kolkata under the companies act1956 and no dispute remains between the parties under the trade mark.
based on this affidavit the suit was partially decreed in favour of the appellant on november 102004.
in 2007however the first respondent filed a suit in the court of additional district judge delhi for setting aside the decree dated november 102004 that suit is said to be pending.
the ipab in the impugned order while dealing with the plea of limitation raised by the appellant held that the first respondent was the appropriate aggrieved party in the matter in view of the fresh cause of action having arisen to the first respondent on filing of civil suit no 71 of 2001 by the appellant before the madras high court.
the ipab in the impugned order held that the trade mark nos 475269475267 and 484837 have not been used by the appellant for more than a period of five years and one month and the appellant also failed to make out that it had been in manufacturing or trading of the goods for which it had taken registration nos 475269475267 and 484837 consequently the ipab allowed the applications made by the first respondent purportedly under section 461b of the 1958 act and directed the registrar to remove these registrations from the register.
mr akhil sibal learned counsel for the appellant argued that an application for rectification whether under section 46 or section 56 of the 1958 act can only be preferred by a person aggrieved the applicant must not only be a person aggrieved on the date of the application but must continue to remain a person aggrieved until such time as the rectification application is finally decided.
he contended that the first respondent is not shown to have ever traded or intended to trade in any goods covered by the appellant s registrations under classes 7 and 16 and as such the first respondent is not a person aggrieved with regard to the appellant s registrations under these two classes.
as regards class 9 he would submit that in view of the affidavit filed by the first respondent on july 142004 in the court of additional district judge delhi the first respondent ceases to be an aggrieved person on the date of consideration of the rectification application.
assailing the finding of the ipab as regards non use by the appellant during the relevant period learned counsel for the appellant argued that the said finding was erroneous on legal as well as factual premise.
he contended that the ipab erred in holding that software was a service and the subject registrations were in relation to goods without considering the wide definition of goods provided under section 2g of the 1958 act.
akhil sibal argued that the ipab committed grave error in relying upon the provisions of the 1999 act and the trade marks rules2002 when these provisions were not applicable as the applications were filed under the 1958 act.
according to him the ipab sought to rely upon computer programming which is a service enumerated in class 42without considering the distinction between a computer programme and computer programming and without noticing the entry computer under class 9 which falls within goods.
akhil sibal learned counsel also argued that the ipab failed to have regard to the proviso to section 461in terms of which it is open to the registered proprietor to rely upon use of the registered trade mark during the relevant period in relation to goods of the same descriptionin order to resist an application for rectification.
in reply to the arguments of learned counsel for the appellant mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent strenuously urged that the plea of aggrieved person is a new plea and raised substantially for the first time before this court.
he argued that the appellant has not taken the plea of the first respondent not being a person aggrieved with respect to filing of the applications for rectification before the ipab merely urging the plea that the first respondent has no locus standi in the written submissions before the ipab is not sufficient.
learned counsel would submit that the appellant has for the first time argued before this court that the first respondent is not a person aggrieved andor not capable of maintaining the rectification proceedings with respect to each and every good for which the appellant has been registered since the first respondent has not been registered for all the goods.
vaibhav gaggar rather asserted that the first respondent is a person aggrieved in view of the fact that various suits for infringement have been filed by the appellant against the first respondent and on the date of the applications for rectification removal of the subject registrations from the register the suits were pending.
with reference to the affidavit dated july 142004 filed by the first respondent before the court of additional district judge he submitted that the said affidavit has no relevance in consideration as to whether the first respondent is an aggrieved person as section 46 1 of the 1958 act relates only to the period upto the date of the filing of the rectification application and the rights of the parties crystallized at that stage itself.
1976 indlaw mad 380.
he also placed reliance upon some more decisions viz ritz hotel ltd 1989.
he argued that in a case such as the present one since the allegations against the appellant relate to trafficking squatting and non user the scope of person aggrieved has to be enlarged.
he vehemently contended that goods in classes 79 and 16 for which the appellant obtained registration were never used in the manner contemplated by the 1958 act for almost 30 years and that would show the mala fide intention of the appellant in having the same registered for the purpose of squatting and trafficking.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in nestle s products india.
anr air 1978 mad 336 he submitted that appellant is primarily in service industry which is unregistrable under the 1958 act and since the appellant is not trading in the goods in respect of which it is registered it can not be said that the mark of the appellant is distinctive of its goods.
in any case learned counsel would submit that the expression infosys is not descriptive expression.
lastly he submitted that although no cross objections or cross appeal has been filed the first respondent has some grievance with regard to the order of the ipab in not considering the case set up in the rectification removal applications particularly with regard to section 56 of the 1958 act.
having regard to the order that we intend to make we are not persuaded to accept the objection raised on behalf of the first respondent that present appeal preferred directly before this court from the impugned order passed by the ipab is not maintainable and must be dismissed as such.
apart from it on september 122005 after hearing both parties special leave was granted by this court.
47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a that the trade mark was registered without any bona fide intention on the part of the applicant for registration that it should be used in relation to those goods by him or in a case to which the provisions of section 45 apply by the company concerned and that there has in fact been no bona fide use of the trade mark in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being up to a date one month before the date of the application or b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered 18 and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub section 3 of section 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application under clause a or clause b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevant date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
any person aggrieved by the absence or omission from the register of any entry or by any entry made in the register without sufficient cause or by any entry wrongly remaining on the register or by any error or defect in any entry in the register may apply in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar and the tribunal may make such order for making expunging or varying the entry as it may think fit.
applications under sections 46 and 56 may be made to the registrar who is competent to grant the relief.
an applicant must therefore show that in some possible way he may be damaged or injured if the trade mark is allowed to stand and by possible i mean possible in a practical sense and not merely in a fantastic view.
15 rpc 677which has been reproduced in the report.
in our considered view it was.
