the high court after deciding various issues remanded the cases to the compensation officer under the act after over ruling most of the contentions pressed before it by the appellant.
we are directly concerned with the issue of compensation which is dealt with as earlier stated in chapter v of the act.
a compensation assessment roll containing the gross asset and net income of each estate together with the compensation payable in respect of such estate has to be prepared by him.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit s points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
the provisions of section 373 read with section 262.
it is this court which by its order dated 10 4 1969 in civil revisions 201 202 and 203 of 1968 conferred new jurisdiction on the compensation officer to deal freshly with the case and therefore notwithstanding anything contained in the act the compensation has to be calculated according to the directions given by the court 2 the court was fully aware of the statutory provision in section 262.
there was no direction that this report of the d f o should be further subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
where the actual income is to be included in the gross assets in the case of forests the assumed income and not the actual income is to be included.
during the agricultural year immediately preceding the abolition the petitioners had not actually derived any income from the forests and as such they were under no obligation to pay any income tax on such income.
the slab system of calculation of compensation in the act providing smaller multiples for estates yielding larger income is unconstitutional.
8 compensation money should be so calculated that the purchasing power of the amount of compensation to be paid on the date of actual payment will not be less than its purchasing power on the date of vesting and 9 interest should be calculated at not less than 12 per annum from the date of vesting till payment.
the meat of the matter the primary question agitated in the appeal lopping off the fringe issues of lesser import consists in the statutory methodology and functionaries prescribed by the act for quantifying the compensation and the compliance therewith by the statutory machinery in the case of the appellant.
moreover the high court has rightly pointed out that the validity of section 373 of the act which fixes a small rate of interest on the compensation amount has been upheld by the supreme court in gajapati narayan s case.
law is sometimes blind.
the appellant challenges the slab system of compensation provided in the act which awards smaller multiples for estates yielding larger incomes on the score of violation of the fundamental rights under the constitution.
the short answer is that article 313 read with article 312 bars any challenge to the amount of compensation on acquisition by the state subject to compliance with the prescriptions in the said sub articles on the ground that the amount so fixed or determined is not adequate.
the argument is that for certain reasons the appellant could not derive and actual income from the forests taken over by the state from him and therefore there was no income tax payable on any agricultural income from these forests.
here again the flaw in the submission consists in mis reading section 27 of the act which expressly states that the net income from an estate shall be computed by deducting from the gross assets of such estate any sum which was payable by the intermediary as income tax in respect of any income derived from such estate for the previous agricultural year.
he forgets that in the case of forests it is the assumed income and not the actual income that forms the basis of calculation of compensation.
if a notional income on the assumed basis can be used for fixing compensation a notional income tax can be calculated and deducted.
the statutory scheme of compensation for forest lands consists of machinery for assessment of the net income which is multiplied on a sliding scale and the method of challenge to the determination by the aggrieved owner of state.
v gross income from forests calculated on the basis of the appraisement made of annual yield of the forests on the date of vesting by a forest officer subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests such forest officer being not below the rank of a divisional forest officer to be appointed in this behalf by the state government.
those officers ascertain the income from the forest concerned and the figure so fixed is subject to the approval of the c c f chief conservator of forests presumably the top expert in the department.
the section is clear that the gross income from forests must be calculated on the basis of appraisal of the annual yield on the date of vesting firstly by a forest officer and secondly by the chief conservator of forests screening it and approving it.
indeed preliminary to the appraisal operation the intermediary receives a notice in form d rule 13 and he is expected to furnish a return of the relevant particulars and supporting information to enable correct appraisement.
later revision petition were filed before the high court and g k misra j set aside the order disallowing the inclusion of the income from forests for ascertainment of compensation and directed a remand to the compensation officer.
the divisional forest officer who would make the appraisement will be examined as a witness for the compensation officer and would be subjected to cross examination.
no other evidence would be permissible as the state has not chosen to give any other evidence.
under rule 131 c of the orissa estates abolition rules 1952 the compensation officer may rely upon such other materials as may otherwise be ascertained by him.
the compensation case is to be disposed of by the compensation officer within six months from today 104 1969 with intimation to this court.
the use of the expression divisional forest officers is erroneous although forest officers are appointed from among divisional forest officers.
equally clearly a slight error has crept into the judge s order because he does not make any reference specifically to the statutory requirement of approval of the chief conservator of forests of the appraisement made by the forest officer.
the district forest officer who incidentally happens to be a forest officer under the act having been appointed as required thereunder made his appraisal of the annual income and submitted to the chief conservator who altered the annual yield and reduced it substantially.
the compensation officer accepted the report of the chief conservator and made the statutory calculation on that date.
indeed there was a fundamental difference in the basis adopted by the forest officer and the chief conservator in the matter of assessing the income of the forests in question.
we need not go into this detail except for the purpose of noticing that what the chief conservator did was not to approve wholly or in a modified form what the forest officer did but to make his own appraisal independently and without reference to the report of the statutory functionary viz the forest officer.
