barlagan ketone a bulk drug was not treated as an essential bulk drug under the drugs prices control.
order 1970 and was not included in the schedule to that order.
a manufacturer was under the provisions of that order free to continue to sell the drug at the price reported by him to the central government at the time of the commencement of the order but was under an obligation not to increase the price without the prior approval of the central government.
for the moment ignoring the price fixed by the government we see that the price of rs 24735 per kg.
at which the manufacturer was previously selling the drug and at which he continues to market the drug to this day because of the quashing of the order fixing the price by the high court is so unconsciously high even compared with the price claimed by himself that it appears to justify the charge that some manufacturers do indulge in profiteering.
the essential commodities act is a legislation towards that end.
in particular section 32c enables the central government to make an order providing for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold.
order 1979 the central government issued notifications fixing the maximum prices at which various indigenously manufactured bulk drugs may be sold by the manufacturers.
the manufacturers had also filed review petitions before the government under paragraph 27 of the 1979 order.
nevertheless the high court gave detailed directions regarding the manner of disposal of the review petitions by the high court.
the union of india has preferred these appeals by special leave of this court against the judgment of the high court.
the second observation we wish to make is legislative action plenary or subordinate is not subject to rules of natural justice.
in the case of subordinate legislation it may happen that parliament may itself provide for a notice and for a hearing there are several instances of the legislature requiring the subordinate legislating authority to give public notice and a public hearing before say for example levying a municipal rate  in which case the substantial non observance of the statutorily prescribed mode of observing natural justice may have the effect of invalidating the subordinate legislation.
in such a situation while such enquiry by the subordinate legislating body as it deems fit is a condition precedent to the subordinate legislation the nature and the extent of the enquiry is in the discretion of the subordinate legislating body and the subordinate legislation is not open to question on the ground that the enquiry was not as full as it might have been.
the third observation we wish to make is price fixation is more in the nature of a legislative activity than any other.
a legislative act is the creation and promulgation of a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases an administrative act is the making and issue of a specific direction or the application of a general rule to a particular case in accordance with the requirements of policy.
legislation is the process of formulating a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases and usually operating in future administration is the process of performing particular acts of issuing particular orders or of making decisions which apply general rules to particular cases.
it has also been said rule making is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class while an adjudication on the other hand applies to specific individuals or situations.
administration and administrative adjudication may also be of general application and there may be legislation of particular application only.
the object of the rule the reach of its application the rights and obligations arising out of it its intended effect on past present and future events its form the manner of its promulgation are some factors which may help in drawing the line between legislative and non legislative acts.
a price fixation measure does not concern itself with the interests of an individual manufacturer or producer.
otherwise price fixation is generally a legislative activity.
we also wish to clear a misapprehension which appears to prevail in certain circles that price fixation affects the manufacturer or producer primarily and therefore fairness requires that he be given an opportunity and that fair opportunity to the manufacturer or producer must be read into the procedure for price fixation.
after referring to hari shanker bagla v state of madhya pradesh 1955 1 scr 380 1954 indlaw sc 135 union of india v bhanamal gulzarimal 1960 2 scr 627 1959 indlaw sc 127 sri krishna rice mills v joint director food 1965 indlaw sc 93 unreported state of rajasthan v nathmal and mithamal 1954 scr 982 1954 indlaw sc 66 narendra kumar v union of india 1960 2 scr 375 1959 indlaw sc 61 panipat co operative sugar mills v union of india 1973 1 scc 129 1972 indlaw sc 155 anakapalle co operative agricultural industrial society ltd v union of india.
2 scr 526 1971 indlaw sc 291 a constitution bench of the court observed that the dominant object and the purpose of the legislation was the equitable distribution and availability of commodities at fair price and if profit and the producer s return were to be kept in the forefront it would result in losing sight of the object and the purpose of the legislation.
the cost of production a reasonable return to the producer of the commodity are to be taken into account.
the fair price must be fair not only from the point of view of the consumer but also from the point of view of the producer.
in fixing the prices a price line has to be held in order to give preference or pre dominant consideration to the interest of the consumer or the general public over that of the producers in respect of essential commodities.
if an essential commodity is in short supply or there is hoarding concerning or there is unusual demand there is abnormal increase in price.
it was also reiterated that the decision in shree meenakshi mills case was based on a special agreement between the parties and therefore had no relevance to the question before them.
chandrachud j speaking for the court approved the observation of beg cj.
referring to shri meenakshi mills the learned cj reaffirmed the approval accorded to the statement in secretary of agriculture v central reig refining company supra that courts of law could not be converted into tribunals for relief from the crudities and inequities of complicated experimental economic legislation.
he also reaffirmed the proposition that price fixation was in the nature of a legislative measure and could not give rise to a complaint that natural justice was not observed.
he observed we think that unless by the terms of a particular statute or order price fixation is made a quasi judicial function for specified purposes or cases it is really legislative in character in the type of control order which is now before us because it satisfies the tests of legislation.
a legislative measure does not concern itself with the facts of an individual case.
the former had said there is no doubt that a minister or any other body in making legislation for example by statutory instrument or by law is not subject to the rules of natural justice bates v lord hailsham of st marylebone supra  any more than is parliament itself edinburgh and dalkeith rv v wauchope per lord brougham 1842 8 cl f 700 720 british railways board v pickin 1974 1.
the order requiring him to sell the sugar to the government was made under section 32f of the essential commodities act under which the central government was enabled to make an order requiring any person engaged in the production of any essential commodity to sell the whole or specified part of the quantity produced by him to the government or its nominee.
it is to be noticed here that the payment to be made under section 33c is not necessarily the same as the controlled price which may be fixed under section 32c of the act.
section 32c of the act we have already seen enables the central government to make an order controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold if the central government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or in securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices.
section 33c provides for the determination of the price to be paid to a person who has been directed by the central government by an order made under section 32c to sell a certain quantity of an essential commodity to the government or its nominee.
the order made under section 32c which is not in respect of a single transaction nor directed to particular individual is clearly a legislative act while an order made under section 33c which is in respect of a particular transaction of compulsory sale from a specific individual is a non legislative act.
the order made under section 32c controlling the price of an essential commodity may itself prescribe the manner in which price is to be fixed but that will not make the fixation of price a non legislative activity when the activity is not directed towards a single individual or transaction but is of a general nature covering all individuals and all transactions.
the key factor in the holmes analysis is time a rule prescribes future patterns of conduct a decision determines liabilities upon the basis of present or past facts.
we may now turn our attention to the two drugs prices control order of 1970 and 1979 both of which were made by the central government in exercise of its powers under section 3 of the essential commodities act.
the drugs prices control order 1970 defined bulk drugs as follows bulk drugs means any unprecessed phamaceutical chemical biological and plant product or medicinal gas conforming to pharmacopocial or other standards accepted which is used as such or after being processed into formulations and includes an essential bulk drug.
bulk drugs were divided into essential bulk drugs which were included in the schedule and bulk drugs which were not so included.
in the case of essential bulk drugs paragraph 4 of the order enabled the central government to fix the maximum price at which such essential bulk drugs should be sold.
in the case of bulk drugs which were not included in the schedule a manufacturer was entitled to continue to market the product at the same price at which he was marketing the products at the time of the commencement of the order.
the government of india accepted the report of the hathi committee and announced in parliament the statement on drug policy pursuant to which the drugs prices control order 1970 was repealed and the drugs prices control.
order 1979 was made.
the hathi committee had recommended that a return post tax between 12 to 14 on equity that is paid up capital plus reserves may be adopted as the basis for price fixation depending on the importance and complexity of the bulk drug.
alternatively all formulations other than those marketed under generic names which have an annual sale in the country in excess of rs 15 lakhs inclusive of excise duty may be subjected to price control irrespective of whether or not the total annual turnover of the unit is in excess of rs 1 crore.
prices control.
the expressions free reserve leader price net worth now bulk drug pooled price pre tax return retention price are defined in the following manner free reserve means a reserve created by appropriation of profits but does not include reserves provided for contingent liability disputed claims goodwill revaluation and other similar reserves.
new bulk drug means a bulk drug manufactured within the country for the first time after the commencement of this order.
pooled price in relation to a bulk drug means the price fixed under para 7.
retention price in relation to a bulk drug means the price fixed under paras 4 and 7 for individual manufacturers or importers or distributors or such bulk drugs.
the distinction between an essential bulk drug included in the schedule and a bulk drug not so included in the schedule which was made in 1970 drugs prices control.
bulk drugs were however broadly divided into indigenously manufactured bulk drugs imported bulk drugs and hulk drugs which were both manufactured indigenously as also imported.
paragraph 3 of the 1979 order enables the government with a view to regulating the equitable distribution of any indigenously manufactured bulk drug specified in the first or the second schedule and making it available at a fair price and after making such enquiry as it deems fit to fix from time to time by notification in the official gazette the maximum price at which the bulk drug shall be sold.
cl 2 of paragraph 3 provides that while so fixing the price of a bulk drug the government may take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on net worth.
we have already noticed that net worth is defined to mean the share capital of a company plus free reserve if any.
it is then prescribed by clause 3 no person shall sell a bulk drug at a price exceeding the price notified under sub paragraph 1 plus local taxes if any payable provided that until the price of bulk drug is so notified the price of such bulk drug shall be the price which prevailed immediately before the commencement of this order and the manufacture of such bulk drug at a price exceeding the price which prevailed as aforesaid.
this means that until the maximum sale price of an indigenously manufactured bulk drug is fixed under paragraph 3 of the 1979 order the price fixed under paragraph 4 of the 1970 order or the price permitted under paragraph 5 of the 1970 order was to be maximum sale price.
paragraph 34b provides that where the price of a bulk drug has not been notified by the government the manufacturer shall within 14 days of the commencement of the the production of such bulk drug make an application to the government in form i and intimate the government the price at which he intends to sell the bulk drug and the government may after making such an enquiry as it thinks fit by order fix a provisional price at which such bulk drug shall be sold.
paragraph 4 of the 1979 order provides that notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph 3 the government may if it considers necessary or expedient so to do for increasing the production of an indigenously manufactured bulk drug specified in the first or second schedule by order fix a a retention price of such bulk drug b a common sale price for such bulk drug taking into account the weighted average of the retention price fixed under clause.
common sale price we take it is the price at which manufacturers whose retentions are fixed may sell the bulk drug despite the maximum sale price fixed under paragraph 3.
paragraph 6 enables the government to fix the maximum sale price of imported bulk drugs specified in first and second schedules.
paragraph 7 deals with the power of the government to fix retention price and pooled price for the sale of bulk drugs specified in the first and second schedules which are both indigenously manufactured and imported.
paragraph 9 empowers the government to direct manufacturers of bulk drugs to sell bulk drugs to manufacturers of formulations.
p c means packing charges worked out in accordance with such norms as may be specified by the government from time to time by notification in the official gazette in this behalf.
paragraph 16 provides that where any manufacturer importer or distributor of any bulk drug or formulation fails to furnish information as required under the order within the time specified therein the government may on the basis of such information as may be available with it by order fix a price in respect of such bulk drug or formulation as the case may be.
formulations constituting categories i ii and iii are enumerated in the third schedule.
the fourth schedule prescribes the various forms referred to in the different paragraphs of the drugs prices control order.
a note at the end of the proforma requires the exclusion from cost certain items of expenses such as bonus in excess of statutory minimum bad debts and provisions donations and charities loss gain on sale of assets brokerage and commission expenses not recognised by income tax authorities and adjustments relating to previous years.
he urged that relevant information was required to be furnished and was indeed furnished by all the manufacturers in the prescribed form as required by paragraph 34 of the drugs prices control order.
he further submitted that paragraph 27 of the central order gave a remedy to the manufacturers to seek a review of the order fixing the maximum price under paragraph 3.
the review contemplated by paragraph 27 in so far as it related to the notification under paragraph 3 it was submitted by the learned additional solicitor general did not partake the character of a judicial or quasi judicial proceeding.
the submission of shri anil diwan learned counsel for the respondents was that unlike other price control legislations the drugs prices control order was designed to induce better production by providing for a fair return to the manufacturer.
reference was made to the hathi committee report which had recommended a return of 12 to 14 post tax return on equity that is paid up capital plus reserves and the statement on drug policy which mentioned that ceiling prices may be determined by taking into account production costs and a reasonable return.
great emphasis was laid on the second clause of paragraph 3 of the 1979 order which provides that in fixing the price of a bulk drug the government may take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on networth.
it was submitted that the provision for an enquiry preceding the determination of the price of a bulk drug the prescription in paragraph 3 cl 2 that the average cost of production of the drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer should be taken into account and that a reasonable return on networth should be allowed and the provision for a review of the order determining the price established that price fixation under the drugs prices control.
the suggestion of the learned counsel was that the nature of the review under paragraph 27 was so apparently quasi judicial and that the need to know the reasons for the order sought to be reviewed was so real if the manufacturer was effectively to exercise his right to seek the quasijudicial remedy of review that by necessary implication it became obvious that the order fixing the maximum price must be considered to be quasijudicial and not legislative in character.
it was contended that in any case whatever be the nature of the enquiry and the order contemplated by paragraph 3 the review for which provision made by paragraph 27 was certainly of a quasijudicial character and therefore it was necessary that the manufacturers should be informed of the basis for the fixation of the price and furnished with details of the same in order that they may truly and effectively avail themselves of the remedy of review.
it was stated that the applications of the manufacturers for review of the notifications fixing the prices had not been disposed of for years though time was really of the very essence of the matter.
the prices of formulations were dependent on the prices of drugs and it was not right that prices of formulations should have been fixed even before the applications for review against the notifications fixing the price of bulk drugs were disposed of.
we are unable to agree with the submissions of the learned counsel for the respondents either with regard to the applicability of the principles of natural justice or with regard to the nature and the scope of the enquiry and review contemplated by paragraphs 3 and 27 while making our preliminary observations we pointed out that price fixation is essentially a legislative activity though in rare circumstances as in the case of a compulsory sale to the government or its nominee it may assume the character of an administrative or quasijudicial activity.
order is not a legislative activity but a quasi judicial activity which would attract the observance of the principles of natural justice.
a provision for such enquiry as it thinks fit by a subordinate legislating body we have explained earlier is generally an enabling provision to facilitate the subordinate legislating body to obtain relevant information from any source and it is not intended to vest any right in any body other than the subordinate legislating body.
in the present case the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of drugs prices control.
order is to be made for the purposes of fixing the maximum price at which a bulk drug may be sold with a view to regulating its equitable distribution and making it available at a fair price.
it is primarily from the consumer public s point of view that the government is expected to make its enquiry.
the need of the consumer public is to be ascertained and making the drug available to them at a fair price is what it is all about.
in fixing the price of a bulk drug the government is expressly required by the order to take into account the average cost of production of such bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and allow a reasonable return on net worth.
the former is an enquiry leading to a legislative activity while the latter is an enquiry which ends in an administrative or quasi judicial decision.
the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of the drug prices control.
the legislative activity being a subordinate or delegated legislative activity it must necessarily comply with the statutory conditions if any no more and no less and no implications of natural justice can be read into it unless it is a statutory condition.
notwithstanding that the price fixation is a legislative activity the subordinate legislation had taken care here to provide for a review.
it is a hearing which follows a subordinate legislative activity intended to provide an opportunity to affected persons such as the manufacturers the industry and the consumer public to bring to the notice of the subordinate legislating body the difficulties or problems experienced or likely to be experienced by them consequent on the price fixation whereupon the government may make appropriate orders.
any decision taken by the government can not be confined to the individual manufacturer seeking review but must necessarily affect all manufacturers of the bulk drug as well as the consumer public.
but whatever procedure is adopted it must be a procedure tuned to the situation.
from the legislative nature of the activity of the government it is clear that the government is under no obligation to make any disclosure of any information received and considered by it in making the order but in order to render effective the right to seek a review given to an aggrieved person we think that the government if so requested by the aggrieved manufacturer is under an obligation to disclose any relevant information which may reasonably be disclosed pertaining to the average cost of production of the bulk drug manufactured by an efficient manufacturer and the reasonable return on net worth.
that we think is the nature and scope of the review contemplated by paragraph 27 in relation to orders made under paragraphs 3 12 and 13.
we mentioned that the price fixed by the government may be questioned on the ground that the considerations stipulated by the order as relevant were not taken into account.
there was no justification for the grievance that particulars were not furnished.
in most cases they are the sale manufacturers of the bulk drug and even if they are not the sole manufacturers they belong to the very select few who manufacture the bulk drug.
as we pointed out earlier these are all matters which should legitimately be raised in the review application if there is any substance in them.
despite the pressing invitation of shri diwan to go into facts and figures and his elaborate submissions based on facts and figures we have carefully and studiously refrained from making any reference to such facts and figures as we consider it outside our province to do so and we do not want to set any precedent as was supposed to have been done in premier automobiles though it was not so done and therefore needed explanation in later cases.
in particular he argued that item a bonus in excess of statutory minimum should not have been excluded so also items of expenditure coming under the other heads b to g which had been allowed by income tax authorities as legitimate expenses.
we do not agree with the submission.
he submitted that the price of a formulation was dependant on the price of the bulk drug and it was therefore not right to fix the price of formulation when the price of bulk drug was in question in the review application and there was a prospect of the price of the bulk drug being increased.
we consider that such orders are against the public interest and ought not to be made by a court unless the court is satisfied that no public interest is going to be served.
the terms of the said order that is on the undertaking given on behalf of the petitioners to maintain status quo on the prices prevailing prior to the issue of the impugned notification the petitioners through their counsel further given an undertaking to this court that in case the petition is dismissed and the rule is discharged the petitioners shall within eight weeks of the dismissal of the petition by this court deposit in this court the difference in the prices of the formulations in question for being equalization account.
no doubt the order as made on november 25 1981 has the manufacturers on terms but the consumer public has been left high and dry.
their interests have in no way been taken care of.
however we think that it is necessary to give a direction to the government to dispose of the review applications after giving a notice of hearing to the manufacturer.
the union of india is entitled to the costs of the appeal and the writ petition in the high court.
as these petitions were filed beyond the prescribed period of limitation petitions for condoning the delay in filing the petitions for special leave to appeal had to be and were filed.
