one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
before his death he executed a will on 16th november 1924 the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
on 21st february 1928 she settled the maintenance claim of lakshmi ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of rs 3350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of rs 240 per annum.
a prayer was made that the widow be restrained from alienating the other properties in her possession.
the subordinate judge held that the widow took under the will a limited life interest and not an absolute estate or even a widow s estate under hindu law and that the daughter got there under a vested interest in the properties to which the plaintiff succeeded on her death.
the question as to the validity of the alienations was left undetermined.
leave to appeal to the supreme court was granted and the appeal was admitted on the 27th november 1951.
the decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator s intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life estate or an estate analogous to that of a hindu widow.
at one time it was a moot point whether a hindu widow s estate could be created by will it being an estate created by law but it is now settled that a hindu can confer by means of a will oil his widow the same estate which she would get by inheritance.
the court s primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
in other words to ascertain his wishes by putting itself so to say in his armchair.
considering the will in the light of these principles it seems to us that lakshminarayan iyer intended by his will to direct that his entire properties should be enjoyed by his widow during her lifetime but her interest in these properties should come to an end on her death that all these properties in their entirety should thereafter be enjoyed as absolute owners by his daughter and her heirs with powers of alienation gift exchange and sale from generation to generation.
they were the real persons whom he earmarked with certainty as the ultimate recipients of his bounty.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
though no restraint in express terms was put on her powers of alienation in case of necessity even that limited power was not given to her in express terms.
just as the widow was directed to enjoy tile entire properties mentioned in the schedule during her lifetime in like manner the daughter and her heirs were also directed to enjoy the same properties with absolute rights from generation to generation.
as above pointed out admittedly power of alienation in express terms was not conferred on her.
indeed we find that within four years of the death of the testator the widow was able to pay a lump sum of rs 3350 in cash to the daughter in law without alienating any part of the immovable properties and presumably by this time she had discharged all the debts.
in this situation the inference that the testator must have of necessity intended to confer on the widow power of alienation for those limited purposes can not be raised.
it can not be said that a hindu widow can only alienate her husband s estate for payment of debts to meet maintenance charges and for her own maintenance.
she had complete control over the income of the property during her lifetime.
but she had no power to deal with the corpus of the estate.
and she thus got an interest in it on the testator s death.
according to jarman jarman on wills the law leans in favour of vesting of estates and the property disposed of belongs to the object of the gift when the will takes effect and we think the daughter got under this will a vested interest in the testator s properties on his death.
it was strenuously argued by mr k section krishnaswami iyengar that lakshminarayana iyer was a brahmin gentleman presumably versed in the sastras living in a village in the southernmost part of the madras state that his idea of a restricted estate was more likely to be one analogous to a hindu woman s estate than a life estate a understood in english law wherein the estate is measured by use and not by duration and that if this will was construed in the light of the notions of lakshminarayana iyer it should be held that the widow got under it a hindu widow s estate and the daughter got under it a contingent remainder in the nature of spes and on her death there was nothing which could devolve on the plaintiff and he thus had no locus standi to question the alienations made by the widow.
the provisions contained in this will bear no analogy to those we have to construe.
a suit was instituted by the son s daughter for the recovery of possession of her share in one item of property forming part of the estate which had been sold by section the question for decision in that case was whether section was at all entitled to sell anything more than her life interest even for purposes of meeting a necessity binding upon the estate.
varadachari j held that since in the will the gift over to the grand children was of the entire properties and not a mere gift by way of defeasance it had to be held that it indicated that the prior gift in favour of the widow was only of a limited interest.
2 m l j 562 were next cited as the will gave her the right to enjoy the income of the estate during her lifetime it was evidently contemplated that she should as provided by the hindu law in the case of a widow be in possession of the estate.
such casual observation made in respect of a will couched in entirely different terms can not afford much assistance in the decision of the case.
either he must have intended that the daughter should convey the property either by will or inter vivos to the grandsons or she having taken the estate through her it should pass to the grandsons in the ordinary course of devolution.
this line of reasoning which appealed to the learned judges is not of much he to us here as the language hi this will is quite different.
in a suit by the respondent against his grandmother the daughter of the testator for a declaratory order preserving unmolested his future right and title to the said lands it was held that the daughter took an estate subject to her daughters succeeding her.
in other words that she should take an estate very much like the ordinary estate of a hindu widow.
these observations are unexceptionable but it may also be pointed out that it is open to a hindu to confer a limited life estate on his widow or even a larger estate than a widow takes as an heir and that in every case he may not confer upon her by will a hindu widow s estate which she would otherwise get by inheritance.
generally speaking there will be no point in making a will if what is to be given to a widow is what she would get on intestacy and cases do arise where a hindu wishes to give to his widow a more restricted estate than she would get on intestacy or a much larger estate than that.
in the first instance he placed reliance on a decision of the madras high court in ratna chetty v narayana swami chetty 19i4 26 m l j 616.
if both of them would live together amicably muthu arunachala chetty himself would enjoy the properties which remain after the death of the widow.
reference was also made to the decision of their lordships of the privy council in mst.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
chunderbutti his wife was in these terms the remaining milkiut and minhai estates together with the amount of ready money articles slaves and all household furniture i have placed in the possession of mst.
chunderbutti thakurain my wife to be enjoyed during her lifetime in order that she may hold possession of all the properties and milkiut possessed by me the declarant during her lifetime and by the payment of government revenue appropriate the profits derived therefrom but that she should not by any means transfer the milkiut estates and the slaves that after the death of my aforesaid wife the milkiut and household furniture shall devolve on girdhari thakur my karta adopted son.
the subordinate judge held that chunderbutti got an estate for life with the power to appropriate profits and girdhari got a vested remainder on her death.
the privy council on this will held as follows their lordships do not feel justified upon mere conjecture of what might probably have been intended in so interpreting it as materially to change the nature of the estate taken by chunderbutti.
and my wife has powers to do in the same way as i have absolute powers to do when i am present and in case of my wife s death my daughter mahalaxmi is owner of the said property after that.
after considering the rival contentions of the parties we are of the opinion that no sufficient grounds have been made out for disturbing the unanimous opinion of the two courts below on the construction of this will.
in our judgment there is force in the contention of mr rajah iyer for reasons already stated and in the result therefore we dismiss this appeal with costs.
appeal dismissed.
