in the year 1929 the andhra engineering co which was originally a partnership firm formed by one d l n raju was converted into a private limited company with its headquarters at visakhapatnam.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
some time later other industrial concerns the andhra cements ltd vi jayawada and the east coast ceremics.
a mention may be made of the fact that in june 1952 the vesco undertaking was acquired by the government under the provisions of the electricity undertaking acquisition act but nothing turns on it.
he died in the year 1939 and was succeeded by r k n g raju an advocate of rajahmundry.
this person however did not shift to visakhapatnam on his becoming the managing director but continued to stay most of the time at rajahmundry.
according to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of d l n raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
according to the prosecution the second raju was not bestowing sufficient care and attention on the affairs of vesco.
the aeco as managing agents of vesco had appointed in the year 1939 one d v appala raju a trusted employee as its representative and as the secretary of vesco.
ganeswara rao was also an old employee of aeco having been appointed a stenotypist in the year 1923 on an initial salary of rs p m eventually he became the head clerk therein.
all this is not disputed.
as secretary of vesco it was his duty to convene the meetings of the board of directors to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of vesco to convene meetings of the general body to prepare the managing agents report and the director s report as also to see to the presentation of auditors report and the statement of accounts.
the explanations of the managing agents and the directors of vesco with respect to the items mentioned in the orders of the board used also to be placed by him before the shareholders.
it was also his duty to have the accounts of vesco audited by the auditors elected by the general body and to produce before the auditors the relevant accounts vouchers bank statements and so on.
there were no complaints about the management of the affairs of vesco or the aeco till the end of 1946 or the beginning of 1947.
one significant fact however which occurred prior to 1946 is referred to by the prosecution.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i wanted to take advantage of this fact and conceived of a scheme for misappropriating as much money belonging to vesco as possible before the managing agency agreement of aeco came to an end in october 1948.
i secured the promotion of the approver k v ramana who was originally accounts clerk to the post of senior accountant.
later however murty was also got transferred to the general section and replaced by p w 18.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i took both the approver and lakshminarayana rao in his confidence as also some other persons known and unknown for carrying out his nefarious purpose namely the misappropriation of the funds of vesco during the subsistence of aeco s managing agency of vesco.
after the death of r k n g raju it was discovered that the aeco was indebted to many concerns which were under its managing agency the liability being shown either as that of aeco or that of r k n g raju personally.
again the vesco was shown as indebted to the andhra cement to the extent of rs 42 000.
i and some of his friends were in search of a rich and substantial man who would be amenable to them to fill the post of managing director of aeco.
it is said that this person has not received much education and knows only bow to sign his name in english.
by cheques.
but domestic consumers usually paid their bills in cash to the bill collectors who used to hand over their collections to the respondent No 2.
this amount was posted in vesco s cash handover book as by safe indicating that this amount was kept in the safe though in fact it was not.
i opened four personal accounts in different banks including the imperial bank of india.
another thing which the respondent No i initiated was opening a heading in the ledger called advance purchase of materials.
amounts which had been misappropriated used to be posted therein though in fact no orders were placed for any material.
at that time it used to be represented to him that the amounts which were shown to be in the safe and not found therein had been sent to the bank for being deposited.
apparently subba raju was fully satisfied with this and other explanations and therefore he appointed one c section raju who was the manager of andhra cements to supervise over the affairs of vesco apparently because of this a new method of misappropriation was adopted by the respondents by starting in the vesco account books an account called suspense account.
a lakh of rupees passed through that account.
amounts which were misappropriated used to find their way in this account.
a new cash book was also said to have been prepared by the conspirators with the object of covering up the misappropriations which had been made.
subba raju was not satisfied with the nature of supervision exercised by c section raju over the affairs of vesco because he used to look only at the cash book entries of the days on which he paid visits to vesco s office to which he used to go with previous intimation.
besides that c section raju s management of andhra cements had landed it into a loss of rs 30 000.
because of all these things he had c section raju replaced towards the end of the year 1951 by one subbaramayya a retired finance officer from the madras electricity board both as a director of andhra cements and as a supervisor over the accounts of vesco.
the shareholders felt that the report had been received but was being suppressed or deliberately withheld.
however the meeting was postponed and eventually held on december 9 1951.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
that report showed that during the period 1948 49 rs 33 271 10 0 shown as paid to the andhra power system were in fact not paid.
the respondent No 1 on being asked to explain said that he would give his explanation to the managing director.
in fact in april 1952 the collector attached vesco properties for realising this amount.
as a result of investigation they found that there was a total misappropriation of rs 3 40 000.
od september 13 1954 ramana offered to make a full confession to the additional district magistrate independent who was empowered to grant pardon under section 337 of i he code of criminal procedure.
as already stated the additional sessions judge convicted both the respondents the respondent No i in respect of each head of the offences with which he was charged and the respondent No 2 in respect only of the offences of conspiracy and misappropriation.
in the first place according to the high court joint trial of two or more persons in respect of different offences cornmitted by each of them is illegal and that here as they were charged with having committed offences under section 120 b section 409 section 477 a and section 476467 i p c they could not be tried jointly.
according to it the provisions of section 239 were of no avail.
section 409 and section 471467 are of different kinds and are not capable of joint commission.
charge of conspiracy according to the high court can be validly made only when the prosecution establishes that every conspirator expected to receive a personal benefit from it and that the prosecution has not been able to establish that the respondent No 2 or the approver evidently had any such expectations since they did not in fact receive any corresponding benefit.
the approver s evidence was held by the high court to be inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal.
3 irrelevant evidence was introduced and some evidence was introduced in a manner not authorised by the evidence act.
4 that the court abused its powers under s 342 cr.
the evidence of the approver was inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal that in any case it is unreliable was so found even by the sessions judge and must therefore be rejected.
we shall deal with mr bhimasankaram s contentions in the order in which we have set them out.
but certain objections have been taken to it with which we will deal at the appropriate place.
the second charge is for an offence of criminal breach of trust punishable under section 409 and the accusation therein is that the two respondents along with ramana misappropriated 69 items aggregating to a little over rs 3 20 000.
it is clear from the charge that some of the amounts were misappropriated between april 1947 and march 1950 some between april 1947 and march 1949 some between april 1947 and march 1951 and quite a large number between september 1947 and march 1950 and a still large number between april 1951 and march 1952.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
unless therefore the provisions of section 239 are applicable it would follow that there was a misjoinder of charges.
ramana forged six documents on different dates between march 28 1949 and november 12 1951 and thus committed an offence under section 471 read with section 467 i p c as we have pointed out earlier the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge in respect of the third and fourth charges.
mr bhimasankaram supports the reason given by the high court for coming to the conclusion that there was a misjoinder of charges.
the main reasons upon which the conclusion of the high court is based are firstly that there could be no clubbing together of the provisions of the various clauses of section 239 and secondly that the respondents were charged with more than three offences of the same kind and that this was in contravention of section 239 c in coming to the conclusion that the provisions of various clauses of section 239 can not be applied cumulatively the high court has relied upon the decision in re vankavalapati gopala rao 1956 airandhra 21.
there the learned judges have held thus these clauses are mutually exclusive and they can not be simultaneously applied and to construe them as supplementing each other would be enlarging the scope of the exceptions.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
if such a combination is permissible all persons accused of offences described in cls.
a to g can be tried together in one case which certainly involves a bewildering multiplicity of charges and which would obviously set at naught the salutary principle contained in section 233.
221 to 232 are comprised under the first sub head and sections 233 to 240 in the second.
221 to 223 deal with the framing and content of charge.
226 to 231 deal with the power of the court with regard to framing and altering charges and the procedure to be adopted at the trial where a charge is found to be defective or there is no charge or where a new charge is to be framed.
but it also provides that this will be subject to the exceptions contained in sections.
234 235 236 and 239.
section 234.
1 deals with the trial of a person for offences of the same kind not exceeding three committed within the space of 12 months from the first to the last of such offences and section 231 2 what is meant by the expression offences of the same kind.
full effect can not possibly be given to this provision if we hold that it is subject to the limitation of s 2341.
sub s 2 of section 235 deals with a case where an offence falls within two definitions and sub s 3 deals with a case in which a number of acts are alleged against an accused person different com binations of which may constitute different offences.
a conspiracy must be regarded as one transaction and there fore a single individual charged with it could be tried with the aid of section 2351 for all the acts committed by him in furtherance or in pursuance of the conspiracy without the limitations imposed by s 2341.
for where all the acts are referable to the same conspiracy their connection with one another is obvious.
f there is a conjunction and.
it could not have been the intention of the legislature to create such a situation.
again as already stated section 2341 does not override the provisions of section 2351 which permits trial of a person for more offences than one committed during any period provided they are so connected together as to form one transaction.
bhimasankaram contended that s 239 must be read at least subject to sections 2341 and 2351 on the ground.
thus he points out that where several persons are accused of more offences than one of the same kind committed by them jointly within a period of 12 months the number of offences for which they could be tried can not exceed three.
a c and d of section 239 as well as that occurring in section 2351 ought to be given the same meaning according to the normal rule of construction of statutes.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
it was contended by mr chari that the expression former part would apply to the first sub division of chapter xix which deals with the form and content of the charges and the powers of the court with regard to the absence of charge and alteration of charge.
thus while it is clear that the sections preceding section 239 have no overriding effect on that section the courts are not to ignore them but apply such of them as can be applied without detracting from the provisions of s 239.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
a large number of decisions of the different high courts and one of the privy council have been considered in this case.
but here again if those offences are alleged not to be wholly unconnected but as forming part of the same transaction the only consideration that will justify separate trials would be the embarrassment or difficulty caused to the accused persons in defending themselves.
in other words as the high court puts it persons included in two or more of the groups can not all be tried together and that since there is absolutely nothing to connect one group with any other the persons of one group can not be tried with those of any other.
no reason has been stated in support of this view.
take cls.
a and b.
a says that persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction may be charged and tried together.
b says that persons accused of an offence and persons accused of abetment or of an attempt to commit such offence may also be charged and tried together.
now if persons a b and c are tried for an offence of murder what intrinsic difficulty would there be in trying x y and z of abetment of the same offence.
a and c c provides that persons accused of more than one offence of the same kind within the meaning of section 234 committed by them jointly within the period of twelve months could also be charged and tried together.
let us consider these clauses along with another illustration.
each of them has committed two offences and each of them participated in the same offence.
c they could be tried together because the offences are of the same kind.
a and c can not be combined.
for without combining these two clauses their joint trial for the two offences in each of which both have participated would be impermissible.
a of section 239.
all these persons can be jointly tried for offences under section 147 by recourse to cl.
a so also a b and c could be jointly tried together for an offences under section 302.
similarly z can be charged with offence s under sections 147 323 and offences under section 302.
a is unavailable they could not be tried for the offence under section 147 at the same trial.
it is difficult to appreciate how this case assists the conclusion arrived at by the high court.
in d k chandra s case 1951 indlaw mum 117 f b it was held that the provisions of sections 234 235 and 236.
being exceptions to section 233 must be strictly construed and that if joinder of charges did not fall under any of them it would be illegal and contrary to law.
this decision is therefore of little assistance.
the high court allowed the revision application.
but on appeal by the state of andhra pradesh to this court this court held that there was no misjoinder of charges that the introduction of a large number of charges spread over a long period was a question of propriety and that it should be left to the judge or the magistrate trying the case to adopt the course which he thought to be appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case.
in so far as some of the charges were concerned this court pointed out that the special judge who was to try the case should consider splitting them up so that the accused persons would not be prejudiced in answering the charges and defending themselves.
it is true that the question of reading the various clauses cumulatively did not specifically arise for decision in that case but the high court had held that the first charge was an omnibus charge containing as many as 203 offences and that it was in direct violation of sections 234 235 and 239 of the code of criminal procedure.
but then section 235 1 provides that if in any one series of acts so connected together as to form the same transaction more offences than one are committed by the same person he may be charged with and tried at one trial for every such offence.
239 would apply.
clearly therefore all the accused persons could be tried together in respect of all the offences now comprised in charge No 1.
this court has thus clearly read the provisions of the various clauses cumulatively and we see no reason to read them differently.
in that case this court upheld the order of the high court of madras in quashing the charges in the exercise of its inherent powers even before the conclusion of the trial.
when an objection is taken at an early stage there is time enough to rectify an error.
but in the case before us no objection was taken to multiplicity or misjoinder of charges before the learned additional sessions judge and it was only in the high court that the point was raised.
this decision completely meets the argument based upon dawson s case.
bhimasankaram supporting the view taken by the high court then contends that it is not permissible to frame a charge of conspiracy when the matter has proceeded beyond the stage of conspiracy and that in pursuance of it offences have actually been committed.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
it was urged before this court that there was misjoinder of charges and persons.
no doubt there is no discussion there as to the question whether the various clauses of section 239 could be combined or as to the impact of the provisions of section 233 to 236 on those of section 239.
a No iii of 1959 decided on january 19 1961.
here again the question of clubbing together of the various provisions of cls.
a to d of section 239 was not raised expressly in the argument before the court.
but the ultimate decision of the case would negative such argument.
again what was said by this court was that it is undesirable to complicate a trial by introducing a large number of charges spread over a long period but even so this was a question of propriety which should be left to the discretion of the judge or magistrate trying the case.
that charge reads thus adverting to the portion which we have bracketed his first objection was that the charge comprises within it not merely the conspiracy but also what was in fact done in pursuance of the conspiracy.
his next objection was that it brought within its purview all the various offences which were alleged to have been committed by the respondents.
criminal conspiracy was however not an unknown thing before the amendment of the indian penal code in 1913.
but what the amendment did was to make that conspiracy itself punishable.
but it does not follow that where crimes have been committed the liability to punishment already incurred under section 120 b by having entered into a criminal conspiracy is thereby wiped away.
but that would be a matter ultimately within the discretion of the court before which the trial takes place.
as we are remanding the appeal to the high court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the evidence of the approver.
even assuming for a moment that this charge is cumbersome in the absence of any objection by the respondents at the proper time and in the absence of any material from which we could infer prejudice they are precluded by the provisions of section 225 from complaining about it at any rate after their conviction by the trial court.
coming to the next point of mr bhimsankaram regarding the abuse of powers under section 342 his first contention was that long and involved questions were put to the respondents.
his second contention was that reference was made to a number of documents in some of these questions and those documents were not made available to the respondents for answering those questions.
finally he said that the court did not perform its duty under section 342 4 of the code as amended as it failed to bring to the notice of the respondents that they may if they chose give evidence in their defence.
in support of his first contention he referred to questions nos 4 8 9 10 and 20 put to the respondent No i and question No 12 put to the respondent No 2 and tried to show that those questions rolled up a large number of separate questions and that it could not have been possible for the respondents to give any rational answers to those questions.
a pointed reference was made to question.
No i which contains as many as 22 sub heads and it is said that it was an extremely unfair and embarrassing question.
what the learned additional sessions judge has done is to err on the side of over cautiousness by putting every circumstance appearing in the evidence to the respondents for eliciting their explanations.
apart from that the respondents were represented by counsel at the trial who knew very well what the law was.
fact misappropriated by the respondents in the circumstance that there are no corresponding entries in the account books of those firms.
the prosecution be established by reference to section 34 of the indian evidence act which reads thus.
cal 1024 upon which reliance is placed by the high court in support of its view is also to that effect.
cal 231 247.
some of the facts in issue in this case are whether payments of certain sums of money were made to crompton engineering co and other firms or authorities.
absence of entries in their account books would be inconsistent with the receipt of the accounts and would thus be a relevant fact which can be proved under section 11.
the fact that no payments were received by those firms has been deposed to by persons connected with those firms and whose duty it was to receive and acknowledge amounts received by the firms or who were in charge of the accounts of these firms.
for the purpose of showing that no amounts were received by the firms their account books would thus be as relevant as the vesco account books for the purpose of showing the contrary.
it is also their case that these firms maintain their accounts in the regular course of business and it is their practice to enter in those accounts all payments received by them.
both the sets of facts are relevant that is non receipt of the amounts by the firms and non existence of entries in their account books pertaining to those amounts.
it is under these provisions that the account books of the firms must be held to be relevant.
the high court held that since the account books were not translated they are not admissible in evidence.
we may however point out that billimoria himself gave his evidence in english.
the third point stressed by him was that the approver was allowed to refresh his memory while deposing in the case by referring extensively to the account books and various documents produced in the case.
according to mr bhimasankaram the pardon tendered to the approver was illegal and if the pardon is illegal his evidence is wholly inadmissible.
further according to him the evidence of the approver was found by the additional sessions judge to be unreliable and therefore the first condition referred to in sarwan singh v the state of punjab was not satisfied.
for all these reasons the evidence of the approver must be left out of account.
the first reason is that none of the offences alleged to have been committed falls within section 337 of the code of criminal procedure and the second reason is that the pardon was granted by an authority not empowered to grant it.
he contends that since the offence is punishable with transportation for life section 337 1 could not be availed of for granting pardon to the approver.
this section does not expressly say that the only punishment provided for the offence should be imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
now of course by the amendment made by section 117 of act 26 of 1955 for the words transportation for life the words imprisonment for life have been substituted but the original structure of all the sections now amended continues.
the offence under section 467 read with section 471 is punishable with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of either description for a period of 10 years but it is exclusively triable by a court of session and therefore in so far as such offence is concerned the argument of mr bhimasankaram would not even have been available.
as regards the offence under section 477 a it is one of those sections which are specifically enumerated in section 337 1 and the argument advanced before us and which we have rejected would not even be available with regard to the pardon in respect of that offence.
he contends that section 337 1 speaks of the district magistrate which expression does not include an additional district magistrate.
no doubt under entry 9 a in part iii of sch.
a case under enquiry or trial before another magistrate does not fall in any of these classes.
therefore a pardon granted by him in such a case would be illegal.
by government order No 3106 dated september 9 1949 the government of the province of madras issued certain instructions to the magistrates in pursuance of the separation of the judiciary from the executive.
it divided the magistrates into two groups judicial magistrates and executive magistrates.
para 5 provides that as officers of the revenue department those magistrates would be under the control of the government through the board of revenue.
in addition to his general supervisory functions and the special powers under the code of hearing revision petitions transfer petitions appeals from second class magistrates and the like the district magistrate was also to be assigned a specific area the cases arising from which would be disposed of normally by himself.
consequent on the separation.
part iv of the government order deals with the allocation of powers between the judicial and executive magistrates.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
as distinguished from the power under the proviso to section 337 1 can be conferred upon an additional district magistrate.
in our opinion there is no subtance in the contention.
the power to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate is no doubt conferred by the proviso only on the district magistrate.
but entry 7 a in part v of sch.
iii when it refers to the power of a district magistrate under section 337 1 does not exclude the power under the proviso.
in support of his contention he strongly relied upon the decision in kandaswamy gounder.
learned counsel further pointed out that the decisions show that however undesirable it may be to adduce the evidence of a person jointly accused of having committed an offence along with others his evidence is competent and admissible except when it is given in a case in which he is being actually tried.
the question raised is an important one and requires a serious consideration.
but it should remove from its mind the misconception that the additional sessions judge has not believed him.
the decision in sarwan singh v the state of punjab 1957 b c r 953 on which reliance has been placed by the high court has been explained by this court in the case of maj e g barsay v the state of bombay.
then again it would not be sufficient for the high court to deal with the evidence in a general way.
appeal allowed.
case remanded.
