the respondent had alleged in the two suits that the appellant was his tenant in the suit premises which were leased out to him and before him his father for conducting the business in the name of ahmedabad fine.
weaving works.
the respondent had further alleged that the appellant no 1 had closed the business and he was not using the said premises for the purpose for which it was let to him.
bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
the main controversy was whether the appellant had sublet the premises to defendant no 2bharat neon signs or whether he being a partner of the said firm had permitted the said firm to use the premises in question.
the said partnership deed records six persons who were to run the business in manufacturing and selling bharat neon signs tubes.
however the document is silent as to where the business was started.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
september1961 at this time the share of the appellant was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee to share the profits only.
april1965 this last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants.
nos 34 and 5.
for this proposition see the decision of the gujarat high court in the case of mehta jagjivan vanechand v doshi vanechand harakhchand and others.
a i r 1972 gujarat 6 1970 indlaw guj 68 thakkar j of the gujarat high court as the learned judge then was held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession.
this view is now concluded by the decision of this court in madras bangalore transport co west v inder singh and others1986 3 s c c 62 1986.
weaving works and according to the terms of tenancy suit the suit premises were leased for manufacturing cloth in the name of ahmedabad fine weaving works.
the landlord had alleged that the appellant had closed that business and he was not using the premises in question for the purpose for which it was let to him.
for the purpose of the suit no 553 of 1969 with which the appeal is concerned it is relevant to state that the appellant had raised the contention that ahmedabad fine weaving works was not the tenant of the suit premies but the suit premises was tenanted by the father of the appellant girdharlal chimalal in 1938 and he was the original tenant of the premises and appellant subsequently joined the business of his father as a partner and the name of the partnership firm was ahmedabad fine weaving works.
he contended further that the suit premises was with him and the defendants nos 2 to 5 had not acquired any tenancy rights in the suit premises.
these facts were accepted that there was a partnership.
as mentioned hereinbefore the learned trial judge consolidated both the suits and in the instant suit being no 553 of 1969 with which this appeal is concerned it was held by the learned trial judge that there was unlawful subletting.
the high court in revision reversed that finding.
that has to be found in section 4 of the indian partnership act1932it says partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all emphasis supplied.
but there is nothing illegal about it.
all these tests were borne in mind by the court of small causes bombay in the appeal from the decision of the learned trial judge.
one point was emphasised by mr mehta learned counsel appearing for the respondents that the original first partnership deed did not mention the appellant or his father as a partner.
it was emphasised that this aspect was not considered by the court of small causes and the high court therefore was justified in interfering with the findings of the court of small causes.
these deeds were there the partners were crossexamined there was no specific evidence as to from what date the firm started functioning from the particular premises in question.
therefore it was submitted that the court of small causes committed an error of law resulting in miscarriage of justice.
there was evidence of suit of dissolution of the partnership where none of the partners took the plea that it was a false or a fictitious document.
all these factors were present before the court of small causes.
that in the partnership deed which is not necessary to recite the terms the petitioner was completely excluded in operating the bank accounts etc.
exhibit 69 at page 136 of volume ii of the paper book is a partnership deed wherein girdharlal the father of the appellant no 1 and the appellant no 1 joined as partners.
all the work had been done by some of the partners of which appellants were not parties and that they had to do the said work as per instructions of the other partners.
clauses 6 and 7 of the said partnership deed recited inter alia as follows 6 the year of accounts of our partnership shall be aso vadi 30th day i e diwali and the first account year is decided to be the aso vadi 30th day of samvat year 2017 while settling accounts at the close of the year33 amount from the sum which may remain as net profit after deducting all expenditures viz interest discount rent of the shop rent of the godown insurance brokerage travelling telegrams postage salaries of employees etc shall be carried to reserve fund and thereafter in the sum that remains as net profit the shares of us the partners have been fixed as under 7 while settling accounts at the close of the year if the sum less than rs 1500 falls to the 0 03 shares of the partners of the seventh and eighth parts the amount falling short has to be debited towards the head of expenditure and rs 1500 fifteen hundred only have to be paid in full to each of them two and in those circumstances or if there be loss the parties of the seventh or eighth parts have not been held liable therefore and in the year or losses it has been decided to pay rs 1500 fifteen hundred only to each of them after debiting the same towards the head of expenditure and in the year of losses nothing has to be carried to the reserve fund and the loss has to be borne by us to parties first to sixth parts in the following proportion 8 clause 8 empowered the operating of the bank accounts by partners other than the appellant and his father.
however on account of the death of khristi girdharbhai chimanlal on 1 2 61 and other reasons the said partnership was dissolved from 8 9 61 thereafter we the parties from the first to seventh part have after purchasing at its cost price all the debts and dues goods stock etc together with goodwill of the dissolved partnership started manufacturing and selling of neon signs tubes in partnership from 9 9 61 we the parties of all the seven parts execute the deed of the said partnership to day.
1 the entire work of our partnership has to be carried out in the name of bharat neon signs.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
3 whatever moneys that may be required to be invested in our partnership are to be invested by the parties of the first second third fourth and seventh parts out of us and the interest at the rate of 712 per cent per annum has to be paid for the moneys that may be invested in this partnership.
we are of the opinion that these were evidence that these terms were acted upon.
the power of the high court to revise the order is contained in section 292 of the bombay rent act as applicable at the relevant time to gujarat the said provision reads as follows 292.
this court in hari shankar v rao girdhari lal chowdhury1962 1 suppl.
a right to appeal carries with it right of re heating on law as well as fact.
the power to hear a revision is generally given to a superior court so that it may satisfy itself that a particular case is decided according to law.
the expression according to law in section 35 of the said act referred to the decision as a whole and was not to be equated to errors of law or of fact simpliciter.
1961 indlaw sc 157 supra bhagwati j observed that the ambit of section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent control act which fell for consideration in hari shanker s case 1961 indlaw sc 157 supra was the same as section 293 of the bombay rent act and therefore he expressed the opinion that the high court could interfere only if there was miscarriage of justice due to mistake of law.
the power according to the learned judge was of the widest amplitude to pass such orders as the court thought fit in order to do complete justice.
as we read the power the high court must ensure that the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind.
we must however guard ourselves against permitting in the guise of revision substitution of one view where two views are possible and the court of small causes has taken a particular view.
the fact that the high court would have taken a different view is wholly irrelevant.
1966the gujarat high court after dealing with the gujarat amendment act xviii of 1965 observed that the legislature has not intended to equate the ambit of the power with the one exercised in an appeal.
the amending provision therefore only related to procedure and not to any rights of the parties.
this view was reiterated by chief justice beaumont in chimanram motilal and another v jayantilal chhaganlal and another a i r 1939 bombay 410 1939 indlaw mum 155 ramaswami j in mohammed musa sahib dead and others v n k mohammed ghouse sahib and another a i r 1959.
and it was a possible view to take.
in the result the appeal is allowed and the judgment and order of the gujarat high court dated 21st of august1979 are set aside.
appeal allowed.
appeal allowed.
