by agreement dated december 291962sen raleigh and the respondents agreed that sen raleigh was registered user for further period up to 1976 sen raleigh was taken over by the government of india on september 81975 under the idr act and the government took over the management of sen raleigh limited.
a continuous period of 5 years or longer had passed and the trade mark had not been bona fide used by the respondent.
the learned single judge dismissed the application by his judgment dated september 131990 holding inter alia that any proprietor mentioned in s 461b of the act extends to bona fide user other than registered users.
the conduct of the respondents was not violative of s 32b and c the court in those circumstances declined to rectify the trade mark and strike it off from the register of trade marks.
on appeal the division bench in appeal no 1391 confirmed the same holding that on and from october 251980the respondent had allowed and permitted the appellant to manufacture bicycles etc according its specifications and to pass off the goods under their trade marks.
the appellant had not taken any steps to withdraw registered user applications and as such should not be permitted to take such a contradictory stand of applying for rectification at the same time.
the discretion therefore was not to be extended in favour of the appellant.
shri raju ramchandran learned senior counsel for the appellant raised three fold contentions.
the appellant can not be said to be either the proprietor of the trade mark since 1976since the agreement lapsed or permitted user  the high court therefore was wrong in holding that 5 years period had not lapsed.
for over a long period the trade mark was not used by the respondents as its registered proprietor.
the burden is on tile respondents to prove that non user was due to special circumstance of the trade and not due to some other cause which would have operated whether special circumstances had arisen or not since the respondents were not using the trade mark since april 201954the plea of special circumstances is not available to the respondents.
in the absence of such a findings the high court was wrong in law in refusing to rectify the trade mark and striking it off the register.
the court while exercising its discretion u s 46 should look into not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest.
according to the learned counsel the respondents have collaboration agreement with sen raleigh which was taken over by the government under idr act and the appellant came to manufacture with the technical know how supplied by the respondents the raleigh bicycles under the trade mark registered by the respondents in the register of the registrar under the act.
the appellant was using the same as an agent.
in view of the prohibition to import bicycles the respondent was prevented to use the trade mark but by collaboration agreement it was continuing to use the trade mark by the permitted user.
the discretion exercised by the court must be judged in the light of the facts and circumstances the appellant having used the trade mark it does not lie in the mouth of the appellant to contend that he is not a permitted user or a bona fide user of the trade mark.
46 removal from register and imposition of limitations on ground of non use  1.
s 48 provides for registered users which reads thus 48 registered users  1 subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as the registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as a defensive trade mark but the central government may by rules made in this behalf provide that no application for registration as such shall be entertained unless the agreement between the parties complies with the conditions laid down in the rules for preventing trafficking in trade marks 2 permitted use of a trade mark shall be deemed to be use by the proprietor thereof and shall be used by a person the proprietor for the purpose of s 46 or for any other purpose for which such use is material under this act or any other law.
the trade mark should be taken off and struck out form the register of trade marks in respect of any goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered sub s 3 enables the registered proprietor to show special circumstances for the non use of the trade mark due to which circumstances in the trade he could not use the trade mark for the above period and not with any intention to abandon the use of trade mark or not to use the trade mark in relation to good to which the application for rectification relates.
it means the use of the trade mark by a registered user of the trade mark in relation to good with which he is connected in the course of trade and in respect of which the trade mark remains registered for the time being and for which he is registered as a registered user and which complies with any conditions or restrictions to which the registration of the trade marks is subjected to.
s 48 1 envisages that subject to the provisions of section 49a person other than the registered proprietor of a trade mark may be registered as a registered user thereof in respect of any or all of the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered otherwise than as defensive trade mark.
the high court recorded a finding and it is not disputed across the bar that the appellant had entered into an agreement with sen raleigh which was a permitted user and used the trade mark till november 11976 and thereafter by registered user agreement dated december 201976 used trade mark for a period of 5 years.
it is not in dispute that till date of filing of the application the appellant used the trade mark in passing off the bicycles under the trade mark of the respondent.
it requires to be prevented and prohibited.
the court would not lend assistance to such registered proprietors of the trade mark.
it is a question of fact in every case.
it is seen that preceding the nationalization of the cycle manufacturing industry under the idr act the respondent had a collaboration agreement with sen raliegh who was a registered user under section 48 from him the appellant came to succeed by statutory operation.
it would connect the registered proprietor and the user of the trade mark by the unregistered lincesee.
co pvt limited and anr.
on strict interpretation the view of the division bench may be correct but it is not correct to hold that by a bona fide user of an unregistered user when connection between the proprietor of the trade mark and the permitted user in relation to passing off the goods under the trade mark are proved it does not render sub section 2 of s 48 surplus age or otios.
although the special circumstances of trade taken by themselves would have prevented the use of the trade mark.
it is also not necessary to go into the question whether the application filed by the appellant u s 481 and its pendency would be a special circumstance in favour of the respondent.
is not attracted to the facts in this case.
it is true that while exercising discretion the court u s 46 of the act should take into consideration not only commercial interest of the parties but also public interest in para 21 82 at page 386 of the law of trade marks and passing off by p narayanan 4th ed it is stated that the court or the registrar has discretion in granting or refusing an application for rectification.
it is not relevant for the purpose of s 461b whether the bicycles were manufactured with the assistance of technical know how passed on by sen raleigh or the permitted user.
in these circumstances we are of the view that the high court has properly exercised its discretion and refused to rectify and strike off the trade mark from the register of trade marks of the registrar.
