a number of averments germane to this case as set out in the plaint are set out hereunder.
the petitioners carried on business as manufacturers of ayurvedic pharmaceuticals products which were sold under the brand name of vicco and have acquired substantial reputation in the market.
in 1984doordarshan in order to popularize sponsored serial undertook the production of a serial by the name humlog.
the petitioners are also pioneers in making use of doordarshan for advertising their products through the agency of the 1st respondent approached the 1st respondent to act as their agents for the purpose of producing a serial which would be shown as petitioners sponsored programme.
the petitioners agreed to pay the entire costs of the said production to the said advertising agency and requested it to look into the matter employed various persons on behalf of the petitioners and prepare a suitable serial for them.
further the said respondents had been recovering the cost of production well in advance of the serial episodes being actually produced.
ltd on.
01 january 1985 the petitioners though not required to do so made an ex gratia payment to respondent nos 1 to 4 of a portion of the royalty received by them from the said m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
1st and 2nd respondents had by their letter dated 14 december 1984 confirmed that the petitioners have all t v and video rights of the sponsored programme in hindi yeh jo hai zindagi and vest with the petitioners.
though original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes and by a letter dated 22 april 1985 the petitioners informed respondent nos 1 and 2 that in the title of the 27th and 28th episodes it has been stated that it is presented by oberoi films.
however the petitioners were not interested in the same as they wanted the serial to project their products only exclusively and did not agree to any other products being tied up with the said serial.
the respondents on 27 december 1985 alleged that they were losing rs 50000 to rs 75000 per episode and indicated that they wanted to get a new sponsor.
the petitioners apprehended that the respondent nos 1 to 3 intended to produce further episodes under the title yeh jo hai zindagi making use of the same format as the earlier serial for and on behalf of the third party.
thus the respondents name was shown in the title of the said serial as the producer thereof right from the beginning of the said serial but the petitioners did not protest against the same.
consistently with the said intention further the master cassette of the said serial at all relevant times remained exclusively with the respondents and not with the petitioners and the petitioners paid to the respondents 50 of the royalty received from m s esquire distributing and servicing pvt.
the respondents also contended that even assuming but without admitting that even if the petitioners are the owners of the copyright in respect of the said serial as on the date of the suit they ceased to be such owners in view of the fact that these rights vested in them before the institution of the suit and they have acquiesced in the exercise of the said right by these respondents by their conduct as referred to earlier.
it was also contended that the 2nd respondent is an artist and a film maker and has been in the field of film making for the past 20 years.
in the year 1967the 2nd respondent s wife mrs sunanda s oberoi started the proprietary business of advertising agency in the name and style of art commercial and the 2nd respondent used to work in various capacities for the said firm.
in course of time the 2nd respondent and partners of the petitioners especially g k pendharkar came very close to each other and developed very intimate relations.
either at the end of 1983 or early part of 1984the 5th respondent through the said doorsarshan decided to introduce the production of films or serials especially for exhibitions on tv instead of exhibiting telecasting films produced by the professional film producers on payment of exorbitant royalty to them partly as an economy measure and partly to provide avenues to and exposure new talents.
the 2nd respondent undertook the preliminary project work on his own without loss of any time.
the said team of the 2nd respondent responded to his appeal and took great pains and put in hard work in the said project and presented to him an exclusive and ingenious format of the proposed serial.
the 2nd respondent then approached the 5th respondent through doordarshan with his proposal to produce the said serial then proposed to be entitled mussibat hai.
after finalizing the proposal by the tv authorities respondent no 2 asked the petitioners as to whether they were interested in the linking up their ads with the said serial.
3 do the plaintiffs prove that the entire serial rights including the excluding the exclusive right to use the title thereof belong to the plaintiffs as alleged.
4 are defendant nos 1 to 4 entitled to deny the ownership of the plaintiffs of the film.
the defendant nos 1 to 4 prove that it was intended between the parties that copyrights in respect of the said film should vest exclusively with the defendants or that the right of ownership was waived by the plaintiffs.
7 does.
the suit suffer from non joinder of necessary parties.
9 are.
10 are.
11 to what relief if any are the plaintiffs entitled.
12 what order.
it was also held that the respondents nos 1 to 4 are entitled to deny the ownership of the petitioners of the film yeh jo hai zindagi in view of exhibits a b and e produced in the case.
after examining the oral and documentary evidence on record it is disclosed that prior to letter sent on 11 july 1984 the petitioners were acquainted even with the format of the suit serial they did not have any connection with the suit serial till that date and relied upon the wording used therein to the effect that you and mr g k pendharkar are requested to join mr oberoi and his creative team when the format of the proposed half and hour sponsored programme shall be presented to you.
it was also on record that the shri g k pendharkar of the petitioners and respondent no 2 had long standing relations with each other and they had already done a lot of advertising works for the petitioners before the production of the suit serial.
it was therefore found that there was no copy right attached to any idea but copy right is attached to the work and what is important is that not only the idea of producing the suit serial on tv came to the mind of respondent no 2 but he had already started working on it in advance and forwarded it to doordarshan for its approval.
the trial court examined in detail the letter dated 19 july 1984 exhibit f 1 written by shri g k pendharkar of the petitioners and concluded that averments made in the plaint stated that the original agreement was to have 27 episodes but having regard to the popularity of the serial programme the petitioners decided to increase the said serial to 52 episodes.
relying upon this letter emphasis was laid on the words produced by sponsors whether two capacities sponsor and producer can co exist in one and the same person or not has been examined and the trial court noted that the wording had been borrowed from the tariff card and tariff card also indicated what are the categories of the advertisers and rates thereof.
inasmuch as the respondents could not claim any amount at random details regarding expenditure were included in the bills and therefore it is the sponsor s price for sponsoring the suit serial.
the change in the title from 55th episode for vicco laboratories was introduced.
therefore it can not be said that there is any communication between the same.
thus the profits or loss was of the respondents and there is element of liability to render account was missing and thus there was no question of respondents being the agents of the petitioners within the meaning of s 182 of the indian contract act.
the suit serial was produced by the respondents as agents of the petitioners was false.
the facts emerging in the case indicate that the petitioners had joined the production of the suit serial after some concrete beginning had been made like recording of the title song the conceiving of the title and format of the suit serial etc.
the high court observed that the petitioners had no knowledge of the doordarshan scheme regarding the sponsored programme and linking of 2 minutes advertisement and agreed with the findings of the trial court that it is improbable for the respondents to have agreed to reduce its income in the form of commission and undertake the responsible job of production of the serial.
in this special leave petition u art 136 of the constitution the contentions raised before the high court are reiterated particularly as to the effect of s 17 of the copyright act and whether the correspondence on record would not indicate that they were entitled to ownership and copyright in respect of the tv programme yeh jo hai zindagi.
2 the bills of cost of production.
3 letters dated 14 december 1984 and 15 november 1985.
4 contracts with doordarshan.
5 contractd with esquire distributing servicing pvt ltd.
2 that the petitioners had agreed to sponsor only 26 episodes whereas the respondents had agreed to produce 52 episodes and had given a firm commitment to that effect to doordarshan as is clear from the letter dated 12 july 1984 sent by the respondents to doordarshan.
3 that the titles of each episode indicated that respondent no 2 is the producer of the said serial and the petitioners are only the sponsors.
4 that the courts below have refuted the claim of the petitioners that the bill dated 19 march 1984 establishes the fact that the production work had been started by the respondents at the behest of the petitioners.
5 that the doordarshan which have been impleaded as a party in their written statement stated that they recognize the respondents as producers of the said serial and recognize the petitioners as sponsors only.
6 that the evidence of mr s s gill who gave evidence on behalf of the information broadcasting ministry that he was not acquainted with mr pendharkar and that doordarshan had no direct connection with the petitioners but only with the respondents as producers or the director stood un impeached.
ltd as their property.
the aggregate amount of rs 76 50 lakhs which was paid to the respondents for 60 episodes is not the amount for cost of production but the fixed price for sponsoring the said serial in order to link up their advertisement with the serial and avail substantial benefit of concessional rate under the scheme envisaged by doordarshan.
thus we find absolutely no merit in this petition.
petition dismissed.
