herein after referred to as pob act to the second respondent gurcharan singh but maintained the conviction preferred the above appeal.
f i r was prepared on the report of mr m k verma who forwarded the f i r before zonal engineer who ordered to issue notice under section 343344 of the delhi municipal corporation act1957 for short the dmc act subsequently the second respondent along with kuldeep singh were prosecuted for commission of offences under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act before the designated municipal court.
aggrieved by that order the second respondent accused filed an appeal before the sessions court delhi.
against the judgment and order dated 23 3 2004the accused filed criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 before the high court delhi.
at the time of arguments the advocate for the accused submitted before the high court that the accused did not wish to challenge the conviction on merits and stated it a fit case of accused to be admitted to the benefit of pob act on the ground that the accused faced trial for 12 years in the lower courts and remained in jail for three days.
besides that he has already undergone some period in custody.
he further submitted that the high court while passing the impugned order and judgment did not take into consideration that the accused respondent had been convicted in another criminal case no 202 of 1997 by the court of metropolitan magistrate patiala house new delhi.
learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant further submitted that there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of pob act particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in delhi despite strict direction of the municipal authorities and courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized constructions.
it was further contended that the respondent has not contested the revision in the high court on merits and confined his submission to the benefit of section 4 of the pob act being extended to him.
concluding his arguments he submitted that the respondent has been released after compliance of the order passed by the high court by furnishing the bone of good conduct and security to the satisfaction of the additional court of metropolitan magistrate delhi and there is no report of any misconduct or breach of the bond of good conduct by the answering respondent since the date of the order of the high court therefore the order of the high court is not liable to be interfered with.
2 whether.
before proceeding further it would be beneficial to reproduce section 4 of the probation of offenders act1958 which is extracted below for ready reference.
1 when any person is found guilty of having committed an offence not punishable with death or imprisonment for life and the court by which the person is found guilty is of opinion that having record to the circumstances of the case including the nature of the offence and the character of the offender it is expedient to release him on probation of good conduct then notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force the court may instead of sentencing him at once to any punishment direct that he be released on his entering into a bond with or without sureties to appear and receive sentence when called upon during such period not exceeding three years as the court may direct and in the meantime to keep the peace and be of good behaviour provided that the court shall no direct such release of an offender unless it is satisfied that the offender or his surety if any has a fixed place of abode or regular occupation in the place over which the court exercises jurisdiction or in which the offender is likely to live during the period for which he enters into the bond.
2 before making any order under sub section.
1the court shall take into consideration the report if any of the probation officer concerned in relation to the case.
in the said case the accused has been convicted under sections 332461 of the dmc act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with fine of rs 5000 in our view there was no good reason for letting the respondent off by granting to him the said benefit of pob act particularly keeping in view the large scale irregularity and unauthorized constructions carried by the builders in delhi despite strict direction of the municipal authorities and despite of the courts passing various orders from time to time against the unauthorized construction.
the trial court heard the respondent on sentence also and passed the following order convict in person with counsel heard on sentence.
it is contended that he is first offender.
he is not a previous convict nor habitual offender.
considering the above facts and circumstances and gravity of the nature of the offence i e extent of construction raised by the accused for commercial as 11 shops at ground floor and 11 shops at first floor i am not inclined to release the accused convict on probation.
hence request declined.
fine deposited.
convict remained for sentence.
since the appellant mcd was not given any opportunity by the high court to file conduct report of the respondent the order impugned in this appeal is liable to be set aside.
a person whose case is based on falsehood can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
a litigant who approaches the court is bound to produce all documents which are relevant to the litigation.
if he withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side then he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well on the opposite party.
it applied to all kinds of offenders whether under or above 21 years of age.
the offender can only be released on probation of good conduct under this section when the court forms an opinion having considered the circumstances of the case the nature of the offence and the character of the offender that in a particular case the offender should be released on probation of good conduct.
such a previous convict can not be released in view of section 4 of the pob act.
goa 49 1969 indlaw goa 8 and a release without such a report.
in the case of ram singh and ors v.
this plea can not be entertained in this court.
in the case of r mahalingam v g padmavathi and anr.
1979 crl.
the court observed as under if any report is filed by the probation officer the court is bound to consider it.
before deciding to act under s 4 1it is mandatory on the part of the court to call for a report from the probation officer and if such a report is received it is mandatory on the part of the court to consider the report.
appeal allowed.
