act 1992 for short the act in misc.
application nos.
41 of 1999 4 of 2001 265 266 and 275 of 2003.
background facts.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
the appellants herein and the said.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
proceedings before the special court.
before the learned special court the parties herein filed several applications which can be sub divided in three categories as would be noticed shortly hereinafter.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
application No 41 of 1999 seeking permission of the special court for sale of residential premises commonly known as madhuli of eight notified entities.
a misc.
application being 4 of 2001 was filed by the custodian praying for the sale of commercial premises.
applications praying for lifting of attachment on their residential premises on the ground that the same had been purchased much prior to 1 april 1991 and the same had no nexus with any illegal transactions in securities.
alternatively it was prayed that since their asset base was greater than genuine liabilities the said residential premises should be released from attachment.
impugned judgment.
by reason of the impugned order dated 17 october 2003 the learned special judge allowed misc.
applications nos.
4 of 2001 and 41 of 1999.
applications filed by the appellants herein for release of the residential flats as well as the commercial premises from attachment were dismissed.
the custodian shall permit the members of family of late shri harshad mehta to occupy the flats during the time that the process of the sale of the flats goes on.
in case no such undertakings are filed by the adult members as directed above within the aforesaid period the custodian shall stand appointed as receiver of the flats which are described in exh.
8 and exh.
contentions of the parties appellants 9.
mr mahesh jethmalani learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in assailing the said judgment of the learned special court inter alia raised the following contentions i some of the entities having their asset base much more than actual liability the impugned judgments are unsustainable.
although in relation to a body corporate incorporated and registered under the indian companies act the doctrine of lifting the corporate veil would be applicable but the same can not be applied in case of individuals.
a copy of the auditor s report having only been supplied during pendency of these appeals the learned special judge committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment relying on or on the basis thereof.
iiithe order of assessment under the income tax act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and thus mere filing of appeals were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
civil appeal No 2795 of 2004 and the kedarnath jute mfg.
co ltd v the commissioner of income tax.
central calcutta 1972 3 scc 252 1971 indlaw sc 841.
ivthe appellants herein apart from the corporate entity which is a front company of late harshad mehta have received large loans advances and credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees they can not escape their liabilities under the act.
even in the case of dr pratima mehta wherein some excesses has been shown if the interest is calculated for the last over 13 years of the amount received the liabilities would exceed the assets.
even before this court the sale of commercial properties had not been questioned.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
2 to deal with the situation and in particular to ensure speedy recovery of the huge amount involved to punish the guilty and restore confidence in and maintain the basic integrity and credibility of the banks and financial institutions the special court trial of offences relating to transactions in securities ordinance 1992 was promulgated on the 6th june 1992.
3 of section 3 contains a non obstante clause providing that on and from the date of notification under sub section 2 any property movable or immovable or both belonging to any person notified under that sub section shall stand attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification and such attached properties may be dealt with by the custodian in such manner as the special court may direct.
any prosecution in respect of any offence referred to in sub s 2 of section 3 pending in any court is required to be transferred to the special court.
section 9 a which was inserted by act 24 of 1994 with effect from 25th january 1994 confers all such jurisdiction powers and authority as were exercisable immediately before such commencement by any civil court in relation to the matter specified therein.
analysis of the statutory.
provisions.
but at the stage when liabilities are required to be discharged the notified person may inter alia raise a contention inter alia for the purpose of establishing that the properties held and possessed by them are sufficient to meet their liabilities.
constitutionality and or interpretation of the act came up for consideration before this court in harshad shantilal.
does the word due refer merely to the liability to pay such taxes etc or does it refer to a liability which has crystallised into a legally ascertained sum immediately payable.
do the taxes in cl.
a of section 112 refer only to taxes relating to a specific period or to all taxes due from the notified person.
at what point of time should the taxes have become due.
whether taxes include penalty or interest.
as regard question No 1 it was held in the present case the words taxes due occur in a section dealing with distribution of property.
in other words taxes as assessed which are presently payable by the notified person are taxes which have to be taken into account under section 112a while distributing the property of the notified person.
in the context of section 112 therefore the taxes due refer to taxes as finally assessed.
so far as question No 4 is concerned this court despite upholding the contention of the custodian that no question of any reopening of tax assessments before the special court would arise and the liability of the notified person to pay the tax will have to be determined under the machinery provided by the relevant tax law observed but the special court can decide how much of that liability will be discharged out of the funds in the hands of the custodian.
then on account of his property being attached he may not be in a position to deposit the tax assessed or file appeals or further proceedings under the relevant tax law which he could have otherwise done.
but if the assessment is a best judgment assessment the special court may examine whether for example the income which is so assessed to tax bears comparison to the amounts attached by the custodian or whether the taxes so assessed are grossly disproportionate to the properties of the assessee in the hands of the custodian applying the wednesbury principle of proportionality.
we must however notice that reliance was sought to be placed on the said judgment wherein reference was made to a bombay high court judgment in hitesh shantilal mehta v union of india.
1992 3 bom cr 716 1992 indlaw mum 6066 wherein it was held if the person approaches the special court and makes out for example a case that the property which is attached has no nexus of any sort with the illegal dealings in securities belonging to banks and financial institutions during the relevant period andor that there are no claims or liabilities which have to be satisfied by attachment and sale of such property in our view the special court would have the power to direct the custodian to release such property from attachment.
but the said observation was held to be not laying down a law by a 3 judge bench of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 holding i.
a notified party has the requisite locus to bring the fact to the notice of the special court that certain sum is owing and due to him from a third party whereupon a proceeding can be initiated for recovery thereof by the custodian and consequent application thereof in discharge of the liability of the notified person.
3 of section 3 should be literally construed and so construed all properties belonging to the notified person shall be subject to attachment which may consequently be applied for discharge of his liabilities in terms of section 11 of the said act.
by reason thereof the property that belongs to a notified person stands attached simultaneously with the issue of the notification that makes him a notified party.
even to say that such interpretation would reduce a notified person to beggary would not be accurate because the alms that he received being his property would stand attached.
the apprehension expressed by the special court does not appear to be well founded if what a notified person obtains by way of purported income or gift or inheritance is really his own money such money would upon establishment of the fact stand attached automatically under the provisions of section 33.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
ivwhether the commercial properties could have been sold in auction.
before adverting to the questions raised herein we may notice that both the parties have raised several contentions before us which have not precisely been raised before the learned special judge.
the parties have also filed several charts before us showing individual assets and liabilities.
air 1957 bom 178 1957 indlaw mum 110 and hari raj singh v sanchalak panchayat.
air 1968 all 246 1967 indlaw all 16 but as observed hereinbefore.
it would not be proper for us to consider as to whether such a remedy being not available in terms of section 42 of the act can still be determined if raised by way of defence.
although a remedy is barred a defence can be raised.
a special statute providing for special or no period of limitation must receive a liberal and broader construction and not a rigid or a narrow one.
the intent and purport of parliament enacting the said act furthermore must be given its full effect.
we are therefore of the opinion that the provisions of the limitation act have no application so far as directions required to be issued by the special court relating to the disposal of attached property are concerned.
although we do not intend to enter into the correctness or otherwise of the said contention of the appellants at this stage however there can not be any doubt whatsoever that they being notified persons all their properties would be deemed to be automatically attached as a consequent thereto.
for the said purpose it is not necessary that they should be accused of commission of an offence as such.
however the contention of the appellants that the properties held by them otherwise are sufficient to meet their liabilities was required to be gone into as in our considered opinion there can not be a any dispute that the appellants have such a right.
lifting the corporate veil.
the custodian in a case of this nature may however show that the transactions entered into apparently by harshad mehta were intimately connected with acquisition of properties in the name of others.
a transaction of benami indisputably can be a subject matter of a lies in terms of section 41 of the act as and when such a question is raised the same may have to be dealt with by the special court appropriately.
however nexus between several persons in dealing with the matter may be established by the custodian.
as the said question has not been gone into by the learned judge special court it is necessary that the same be considered and appropriately dealt with.
in para 14 of the sur rejoinder the appellants denied the asset and liability position as arrived at by the custodian.
according to the appellants the custodian has under estimated the assets and exaggerated and overstated their liabilities.
a triable issue had been raised and the custodian s petition should have been converted into a suit.
the said contention must be properly adjudged.
no credit for rs 1227 crores released to revenue on interest are given by the custodian.
ii liabilities have been shown in relation to unperformed contracts.
credits not given for relief obtained from income tax.
the learned special court despite such a contention having been raised by the appellants in their affidavit in reply did not advert thereto.
it is furthermore not in dispute that pursuant to or in furtherance of the directions issued by the learned special court the accounts of all entities be it corporate or individual were drawn up separately which approach had not been dis approved by the auditor appointed by the special court.
a sur rejoinder thereto was filed on 15 october 2003 and in paragraphs 1 to 6 thereof the said statements were denied and disputed.
thus the total value of the assets as per the affidavit filed on behalf of the custodian of harshad mehta group is rs 9727332166 94.
in arriving at the said finding no contention of the parties raised in their respective affidavits had been adverted to nor any material filed before it was analysed.
allegedly therein it was shown that the individuals had received large loans advances credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees.
before us mr desai had filed a chart for showing the same.
mr desai contended that if interest is calculated liabilities would be more than assets.
but the said chart has been drawn up on the basis of the audited accounts the correctness whereof is itself in dispute.
as regards liabilities of harshad mehta the appellants contended that since his expiry in the year 2001 his legal interests are not being defended both in the court as well as before the revenue as a result liabilities have been foisted upon him a large part which is on account of interest and penalties.
further contention of the custodian is that even dr hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta have admitted that they had no knowledge about the transactions.
a finding of fact arrived at upon discussing and analyzing the respective contentions could have gone a long way in assisting this court in arriving at a correct conclusion.
the learned judge proceeded on the basis that the assets and liabilities joint and collective of all those who are related with harshad mehta as also the corporate entities in which he was a director or had some other interest must be considered as a group.
even in this behalf it was necessary for the special judge to assign sufficient and cogent reasons.
a question may further arise as to whether the learned judge was correct in considering the individual liabilities of the notified parties as the liabilities of the group.
the appellants have contended that the custodian had taken contradictory or inconsistent stand inasmuch as the liabilities of all the entities were treated to be joint liabilities of harshad mehta group.
he furthermore wanted to treat the liabilities of the notified entities also as their separate liabilities.
he has proceeded on the basis that even if the assets and liabilities of all individuals is taken on an individual basis the liabilities would exceed assets in the case of each individual and corporate entity.
tax liability.
the contention of the appellant to the effect that the income tax dues should have been considered at the point of time when they become recoverable can not be accepted having regard to the 3 judge bench decision of this court in b c dalal 2005 indlaw sc 1826 supra wherein this court categorically held that in absence of any order of stay granted by the higher court the liabilities would remain.
we may further notice that the learned special court relied upon a decision in custodian v union of india and ors.
co ltd 1971 indlaw sc 841 supra this court has held although that liability can not be enforced till the quantification is effected by assessment proceedings the liability for payment of tax is independent of the assessment.
but in this case the orders of assessment have been set aside.
a chart has been annexed to the additional written submissions filed by mr desai which originated from a letter dated 9th december 2005 issued by the office of the commissioner of income tax showing the current status of the liabilities of the individual members of the harshad mehta group in the following terms i ashwin mehta rs 1396 crores ii.
deepika mehta rs 120 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
late harshad mehta rs 11829 crores.
pratima mehta rs 115 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
it exceeds rs 35 crores vii.
aatur holdings rs 15 95 crores even after deducting the amount set aside by itat.
in any view of the matter the learned judge special court having not dealt with the question as regard the mode and manner of disbursements of the amount so far as the tax liabilities of the appellants are concerned elaborately the same requires fresh determination in the light of the decision of this court in harshad shantilal mehta.
1998 indlaw sc 732 supra.
in fact the appellants have brought on records various orders passed by income tax appellate authorities to show that the demands of the revenue have been set aside.
furthermore the orders of the appellate authority have been passed during pendency of this appeal.
in fact one of the contentions raised on behalf of the appellants had been that if commercial properties are sold there would be no need to sale the residential properties.
by an order dated 30th january 2004 while admitting the appeals this court directed the learned counsel for the custodian brings on record the result of the bids and the order of the special court dated 17 december 2003 and 20 january 2004.
the process of finalizing the bids according to law may be proceeded ahead by the special court.
however the finalization shall be subject to the result of these appeals.
in any event ordinarily a bona fide purchaser for value in an action sale is treated differently than a decree holder purchasing such properties.
in the former event even if such a decree is set aside the interest of the bona fide purchaser in an auction sale is saved.
see zain ul abdin khan v muhammad asghar ali khan 15 ia 12 1887 indlaw pc 13.
1967 2 scr 77 1966 indlaw sc 120.
but for such protection the properties which are sold in court auctions would not fetch a proper price and the decree holder himself would suffer.
he is a party to the litigation and is very much aware of the vicissitudes of litigation and needs no protection.
the learned judge special court may therefore proceed to pass an appropriate order as regard confirmation of the sale of such properties.
arunachal bhawan barakhamba road is subject matter of a separate proceeding pending before this court viz civil appeal.
admittedly the flats have been sold subject to the result of these appeals.
conclusion.
as regard the tax liabilities of the appellants herein we would request the learned judge special court to consider the matter afresh in the light of the observations made hereinbefore.
a reply and or rejoinder thereto shall be filed within one week from the date of the receipt of the copy of the objection.
the impugned judgments are set aside and the matter is remitted to the learned judge special court for consideration of the matter afresh.
however the parties shall bear their own costs.
appeals allowed.
