appellant before us was detained u s 3 of the conservation of foreign exchange and prevention of smuggling activities.
act1974.
for short cofeposa.
he is the managing director of a company registered and incorporated under the provisions of the companies act known as m s sundesh springs private limited.
it was an exporter and held a valid licence therefor.
he allegedly misdeclared both the value and description of goods upon procuring fake and false bills through one prabhjot singh.
m s s p industrial corporation m s.
aaysons india and m s p j sales corporation ludhiana.
the officers of the directorate of revenue intelligence dri searched the factory as well as the residential premises of appellant and that of prabhjot singh.
appellant and the said prabhjot singh made statements u s 108 of the customs act.
non alloy.
a letters patent appeal concededly which was not maintainable was filed thereagainst which was dismissed by reason of the impugned judgment.
although before the high court the principal ground urged on behalf of appellant in questioning the legality or validity of the order of detention was unexplained delay in passing the order of detention which did not find favour with the high court.
before us several other grounds viz.
non placement of vital material documents before the detaining authority non supply of documents relied on or referred to in the order of detention as also non application of mind on the part of the detaining authority had been raised.
in the meantime admittedly the period of detention being over appellant had been set at large.
we may first deal with the question of unexplained delay.
in this regard we may notice the following dates.
he was discharged on bail on 6 1 2004 several inquiries were conducted both inside and outside india.
a report in relation to overseas inquiry was received on 12 5 2004 on 25 6 2004 proposal of detention was sent which was approved on 2 12 2004 on.
20 12 2004the authorities of the dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny.
but we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2 12 2004the order of detention was passed after four months.
b l  2 misc.
furthermore as noticed hereinbefore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellant.
it was therefore difficult to appreciate why order of detention could not be passed on the basis of the materials gathered by them.
the delay caused in this case in issuing the order of detention has not been explained.
in fact no reason in that behalf whatsoever has been assigned at all.
delay as is well known at both stages has to be explained.
serajul v state of west bengal 1975 2 scc 78 1974 indlaw sc 475this court opined there was thus delay at both stages and this delay unless satisfactorily explained would throw considerable doubt on the genuineness of the subjective satisfaction of the district magistrate burdwan recited in the order of detention.
although learned additional solicitor general may be correct in his submissions that ordinarily we should not exercise our discretionary jurisdiction u art 136 of the constitution of india by allowing appellant to raise new grounds but in our opinion we may have to do so as an order of detention may have to be considered from a different angle.
it may be true that the period of detention is over.
by a letter dated 20 12 2004the authorities of dri stated that transactions after 11 10 2003 were not under scrutiny and by letters dated 28 2 2005 and 7 3 2005the bank accounts of appellant were defreezed.
by an order dated 18 11 2004the civil court issued contempt notice to the authorities of dri for non release of documents and the authorities of dri made a statement before the court that the documents are being returned.
we have noticed hereinbefore that learned additional solicitor general contended that appellant obstructed the proceedings by initiating various civil litigations.
but indisputably those documents involving the civil court proceedings were not placed before the detaining authority.
if the same had not been done not only the delay in issuing the order of detention stood unexplained but also thereby the order itself would become vitiated.
on their own showing respondents admit that they were relevant documents.
a division bench of this court in k s nagamuthu v state of tamil nadu ors 2005 9 scale 534 2005 indlaw sc 748 struck down an order of detention on the ground that the relevant material had been withheld from the detaining authority which in that case was a letter of the detenu retracting from confession made by him.
in ahamed nassar v state of tamil nadu and others 1999 8 scc 473 1999 indlaw sc 778this court opined the question is not whether the second part of the contents of those letters was relevant or not but whether they were placed before the detaining authority for his consideration.
what else would be relevant if not this.
even the letter dated 23 4 1999 which reached the secretary concerned at 3 00 p m on 26 4 1999 was much before the formal detention order dated 28 4 1999 the secretary concerned was obliged to place the same before the detaining authority.
it had specifically been referred to in extenso in the order of detention.
but the said information report was registered only on 6 4 2005 and not prior to the date of order of detention.
considering the nature and gravity of the offence the well planned manner in which you have engaged yourself in such prejudicial activities and your role therein as brought out above all of which reflect your high potentiality and propensity to indulge in such prejudicial activities in future i am satisfied that there is a need to prevent you from indulging in such prejudicial activities in future by detention under cofeposa act1974 with a view to preventing you from smuggling goods in future.
we have been taken through the order of detention.
recording of such statement must have been made from the xeroxed copies of such documents which were available with the detaining authority.
the self inculpatory statements of appellant as also prabhjot singh purported to have been made in terms of s 108 of the customs act were required to be considered before the order of detention could be passed.
it has not been denied or disputed that even the xeroxed copies of the said documents had not been supplied to the detenue.
1991 1 scc 128 1990 indlaw sc 85 the said decision was rendered in a different fact situation.
demand of any or every document however irrelevant it may be for the concerned detenu merely on the ground that there is a reference thereto in the grounds of detention cannot vitiate an otherwise legal detention order.
right to make an effective representation is also a statutory right see sunila jain v 2006 3 scc 321 2006 indlaw sc 65.
if original of the said documents were not available xeroxed copies thereof could have been made available to him.
the detaining authority moreover while relying on the said documents in one part of the order of detention could not have stated in another part that he was not relying thereupon.
even in the earlier part of the impugned order of detention i e detaining authority appears to have drawn his own conclusions.
it is set aside accordingly and the order of detention passed against appellant is quashed.
appeal allowed.
