at about 2 00 p m on 10th november 2002 a boy whose identity is not forthcoming informed satnam singh pw2 that an incident of firing had taken place in the house of ujjagar singh situated in the fields on the outskirts of the village.
puran singh had died about 20 years earlier leaving behind his wife two sons and a daughter mukhtiar kaur.
puran singh had however transferred 30 or 35 bighas of agricultural land falling to his share after the death of his father in the name of the appellant s sons by a collusive decree in the year 1994 and the suggestion was that this transaction had been objected to by mukhtiar kaur who was demanding that the land be returned to her.
it appears that mukhtiar kaur s relations with her in laws had got strained and she had left her matrimonial home and come to live with ujjagar singh her uncle 7 or 8 months earlier and the suggestion was that mukhtiar kaur had been killed by the appellant with his licensed gun and he had thereafter attempted to commit suicide.
having recorded the aforesaid facts in the fir pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh reached the place of incident and lifted one spent 12 bore cartridge case shaktiman make from near mukhtiar kaur s dead body and one dbbl gun from the place where ujjagar singh appeared to have been shot and another spent cartridge case was recovered from the right barrel of the gun.
after completion of the investigation at the spot mukhtiar kaur s dead body was sent for its post mortem examination.
dr harwinder kaur aforesaid also took swabs from the vagina of the deceased and as per the chemical examiner s report dated 2 1 2003 semen was found on the swab taken from the vagina and from the underwear that mukhtiar kaur had been wearing at the time of her death.
he also deposed that mukhtiar kaur had told him some time earlier that the accused had been beating her and had also committed sexual intercourse with her and that at about 11 p m on 10 11 2002 karam singh pw10 had informed him as to what had transpired on which he along with his father hamir singh pw12 and several others had rushed to bangawali.
313 of the cr.
p c in reply to question 33 he stated as under i am innocent.
i have been implicated falsely in this case.
i was treating mukhtiar kaur as my daughter and loved her as my daughter.
false allegations have been levelled against me.
i never harassed mukhtiar kaur nor ever got her land mutated from her mother by fraud.
mother of mukhtiar kaur got the land mutated by her own free will and mukhtiar kaur had no dispute about it.
the learned state counsel has however supported the judgment of the courts below.
he has further emphasized that the prosecution s case stood proved from various factors including the medical evidence the reports of the forensic science laboratory the chemical examiner from the post mortem reports and the recovery of the gun and cartridges.
we first take up for consideration the question of the conviction section 376 of the ipc.
No 4 an abrasion near the right eye do not indicate any attempt to rape or the commission of rape.
we are further of the opinion that even assuming for a moment that sexual intercourse between the two had indeed taken place it can not be said from the evidence before us that it was without the consent or against the wishes of mukhtiar kaur.
we therefore find that ujjagar singh s conviction section 376 of the ipc can not be sustained.
the learned state counsel has however emphasized that both the trial court and the high court had for good reasons opined that the circumstances made out a case for conviction and the accused having given a counter version some obligation lay on him as well to explain the circumstances against him inasmuch that admittedly he and the victim were alone in the house at the time of the incident.
in 1984 4 scc 116 sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 indlaw sc 432 this court discussed the ratio of the judgments in hanumant v state of m p air 1952 sc 343 1952 indlaw sc 89 tufail alias simmi v state of u p 1969 3 scc 198 1969 indlaw sc 573 and ramgopal v state of maharashtra 1972 4 scc 625 1971 indlaw sc 555 and shivaji sahabrao bobade v state of maharashtra 1973 2 scc 793 1973 indlaw sc 181 and observed thus a close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established 1the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.
certainly it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between may be is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.
2the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused that is to say they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty 3the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency 4they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved and 5there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.
mr goburdhan has also cited mahmood v state of u p 1976 1 scc 542 1975 indlaw sc 643 shankarlal gyarasilal dixit v state of maharashtra 1981 2 scc 35 1980 indlaw sc 47 sharad birdhichand sarda v state of maharashtra 1984 4 scc 116 1984 indlaw sc 432 omwati smt and ors v mahendra singh.
1998 9 scc 81 1997 indlaw sc 1403 sudama pandey ors v state of bihar 2002 1 scc 679 2001 indlaw sc 21243 and r r khanna reddy anr.
a few facts stand out from the prosecution story.
first the place of incident being adjoining rooms in the residential house of the appellant and the fact that the alleged murder weapon is his licensed dbbl gun is proved on record.
the evidence also reveals that the appellant was living in the premises along with his wife mother and son and two daughters who were studying outside the village were frequent visitors but it is the admitted position that nobody but the appellant and the deceased were present at the time of incident.
it is true that in a case relating to circumstantial evidence motive does assume great importance but to say that the absence of motive would dislodge the entire prosecution story is perhaps giving this one factor an importance which is not due and to use the clichi.
he has in this connection referred us to the statement of dr ripan miglani pw15 and the wound found on the appellant at the time of his medical examination in the department of surgery of the dayanand medical college hospital ludhiana which was about 15 x 8 cm curvilinear wound present on the left half of face extending upto bone.
he has thus urged that the absence of any blackening underlined the argument that the shot had been fired from some distance and as such an attempt at suicide was clearly to be ruled out.
reference has been made to raj kumar prasad tamarkar s case2007 indlaw sc 5 supra wherein in circumstances surprisingly akin to the present matter this court had the following observations to make the conspectus of the events which had been noticed by the learned sessions judge as also by the high court categorically go to show that at the time when the occurrence took place the deceased and the respondent only were in the bedroom and the terrace connecting the same.
the cause of death of the deceased usha devi i e by a gun shot injury is not disputed.
the fact that the terrace and the bedroom are adjoining each other is not in dispute.
blackening or charring is possible when a shot is fired from a distance of about 2 feet to 3 feet.
in his statement section p c his positive stand was that he alone had been in the house with mukhtiar kaur when she had been killed and indeed as per exhibit p jj mukhtiar kaur s body had been found only one karam 5 feet away from the place where the appellant lay injured.
it must be emphasized that but for this self serving statement made by the appellant there is nothing on record to support his positive stance.
even otherwise we are of the opinion that had the shot been fired by some intruder the direction would have been more or less horizontal and parallel to the ground and not from down upwards with the pellets hitting the jaw skirting the cheek and hitting the roof at point.
a small weapon like a revolver or a pistol is held in the hand while a rifle or a shot gun is supported on the ground or against the wall.
sometimes the firing is done by pulling a string tied to the trigger by the big toe.
the skin around the entry wound shows characteristic blackening scorching and tattooing.
sometimes firearm wounds may look like knife slashes or a bullet hole may resemble a penetrating stab wound if the bullet strikes the head of shoulder at an angle or when an unstable bullet registers a broadside hit.
a fateh describes a rare homicidal gun shot wound of the mouth where the entry wound was in the tongue and the direction was horizontally backward while in suicidal wounds the direction is upwards entrance would be in the palate or posterior pharynx.
for example with firearm temple forehead mouth and chest are the favourite sites.
we also find that no part of the evidence of the hostile witnesses comes to the aid of the appellant.
in this background the death sentence is not called for.
appeal dismissed.
