rendered by the high court of judicature at bombay whereby the learned single judge has set aside the order passed by the arbitral tribunal holding that they did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claim and counter claim made by the parties.
however before the charter party was to come to an end on 29th june1998the indian oil corporation limited for short ioc acting as agent of the appellant issued a fax to various ship owners including the respondent herein requesting them to extend the validity of the charter party agreement dated 6th may1997 beyond 30th june1998 for a period of one month from 1st july1998 with option for two further extensions of 15 days each.
the respondent agreed to the said proposal.
it appears that since charter party dated 6th may1997 was coming to an end on 31st august1998the oil companies sought permission of the oil co ordination committee a wing of the ministry of petroleum and natural gas for further extension of the charter party.
however the oil coordination committee by their fax message dated 26th august1998declined the request of the oil companies including the appellant for further extension of charter party beyond 31st august1998 the said fax message was an internal communication between the oil coordination committee and the oil companies.
the ioc faxed to the respondent relevant portion of the message received by them from oil co ordination committee extending the period of usage of the existing coastal tanker fleet for the month of october1998at 80 charter hire rates prevailing till 30th june1998on provisional basis subject to adjustment of provisional charter hire with retrospective date from 1st september1998 against the revised charter hire to be finalised by the oil industry in response to the tender floated by ioc on 1st september1998 respondent s consent was asked for.
some other objections not relevant at this stage were also indicated.
as such all said and done oil co ordination committee s proposal was not accepted.
admittedly the vessels continued to be chartered by the appellant beyond the date of this letter.
finally it was suggested that we therefore suggest that we sign an agreement with you for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter is finally decided by you under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on an ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
emphasis supplied.
charter hire rate worked out by the committee for vessel jag praja for the period from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 was communicated to the respondent.
in response the respondent while expressing their disappointment with the rate but purportedly in view of their long business relations with the appellant conveyed their acceptance of the proposed rate in respect of each of the vessels named in separate letters all dated 1st.
in respect of the vessel jag praja for the reasons stated in para 1 of the written statement.
and as the dispute between the parties related to the period subsequent to 31st.
the learned tribunal found issue no 2 in the negative and issue no 5 in the affirmative.
according to the tribunal on and after 1st september1998charter party agreement dated 6th may1997 was superseded by a fresh agreement and a term of the agreement was that the charter hire rate would be determined by the oil co ordination committee of the ioc in nutshell the tribunal was of the view that with the performance original charter party dated 6th may1997 got extinguished.
the respondent challenged the said award before the high court.
by the impugned order the learned single judge has set aside the said award inter alia holding that arbitral tribunal has the jurisdiction to adjudicate the disputes between the parties as the vessel continued to be hired by the appellant for the period subsequent to 31st august1998 on the same terms and conditions as were contained in the charter party dated 6th may1997only subject to the revision or modification of the rate of hire to be determined by the oil co ordination committee.
it was thus held that the charter party dated 6th may1997 did not come to an end by efflux of time and it was extended by the parties on the same terms and conditions except the rate of hire.
correctness of this order of the high court is questioned in this appeal.
before we proceed to examine the rival stands we may note at the outset that neither the arbitral tribunal nor the high court have gone into the question whether the claim made by the respondent would otherwise fall within the ambit of the arbitration clause in the charter party or not.
as noted above after the extended period of charter party dated 6th may1997 had come to an end on 31st august1998.
october1998 yet again while responding to appellant s fax dated 31st december1998whereby the respondent was required to sign a provisional charter party by 4th january1999vide their letter dated 4th january1999the respondent pointed out to the appellant that usual practice is that pending finalization of the new charter the existing terms and conditions of the charter party continue to apply and therefore they were willing to sign the agreement as contemplated by the appellant based on the existing terms and conditions.
admittedly no such agreement was signed between the parties.
indubitably there was no further exchange of correspondence between the parties during the year.
nevertheless the appellant continued to use the vessel on hire with them under the time charter dated 6th may1997 the conduct of the parties as evidenced in the said correspondence and in particular appellant s silence on respondent s letters dated 5th november1998 and 4th.
we may examine the issue from another angle based on respondent s stand that charter party dated 6th may1997 continues to be in vogue till the chartered vessel is re delivered.
in this context it would be appropriate to refer to cls 4 and 23 of the charter party dated 6th may1997 these are in the following terms 4 delivery redelivery 4 1.
4 2 charterers to load last three cargoes clean and re deliver the vessel in clean condition.
notwithstanding the provisions of cl 4 hereof should the vessel be upon voyage at the expiry of the period of this charter charterers shall have the use of vessel at the same rate and conditions for such extended time as may be necessary for the completion of the round voyage on which she is engaged and her return to a port of redelivery as provided by the charter.
on a conjoint reading of the said clauses it is plain that the appellant was under an obligation to re deliver the vessel as per the procedure contemplated in the afore noted clauses.
it is clear from the pleadings and issue no 2framed by the arbitral tribunal that it was respondent s consistent stand that since the hired vessel had not been re delivered at the end of the time charter party the vessel would be governed by the terms and conditions in the charter party dated 6th may1997.
however the arbitral tribunal answered the said issue against the respondent.
the learned arbitral tribunal overlooked this aspect of the matter.
therefore the factual scenario in the instant case leads to an inescapable conclusion that notwithstanding the expiry of the period fixed in the time charter party dated 6th may1997the said charter party did not get extinguished inter alia for the purpose of determination of the disputes arising thereunder and the arbitration clause contained therein could be invoked by the respondent.
having come to the conclusion that an arbitration agreement existed between the parties the question which remains to be considered is whether the disputes between the parties should be referred to the same arbitral tribunal which had come to the conclusion that in the absence of any arbitration agreement it did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claims and counter claims.
accordingly we constitute an arbitral tribunal consisting of justice m jagannadha rao presiding arbitratorjustice d p wadhwa and justice s n variava former judges of this court to adjudicate upon the claim counter claim by the parties subject to their consent and such terms and conditions as they may deem fit and proper.
resultantly the appeal being devoid of any merit is liable to be dismissed which we do leaving the parties to bear their own costs.
appeal dismissed.
