this matter is a classic illustration of the confusion which has emerged on account of the postponement of in part commencement of patents amendment act2005.
3 appellant herein filed its application for grant of patent.
explanation for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is claimed shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is obvious and clearly does not involve any inventive step having regard to the matter published as mentioned in cl b or having regard to what was used in india before the priority date of the applicant s claim c that the subject of any claim of the complete specification is not an invention within the meaning of this act or is not patentable under this act d that the complete specification does not sufficiently and clearly describe the invention or the method by which it is to be performed e that the applicant has failed to disclose to the controller the information required by s 8 or has furnished the information which in any material particular was false to his knowledge f that in the case of a convention application the application was not made within twelve months from the date of the first application for protection for the invention made in a convention country by the applicant or a person from whom he derives title.
but on no other ground.
2 where any such notice of opposition is duly given the controller shall notify the applicant and shall give to the applicant and the opponent an opportunity to be heard before deciding the case.
2 save as otherwise expressly provided in sub section 1an appeal shall lie to a high court from any decision order or direction of the controller under any of the following provisions that is to say section 15section 16section17section 18section.
20section 25section.
27section 28section.
51section 54section 57section.
emphasis supplied by us.
a right of appeal was available to the aggrieved party against orders passed under s 25 the said appellate remedy was available by way of an appeal to the high court.
in 2002the legislature desired an amendment to the law and intended to create an appellate forum to hear appeals against orders passed by the controller consequently patents amendment.
act2002 was promulgated on 25 6 2002 however it was not brought into force immediately.
it may be noted that in the said amendment act2002no provision was made pertaining to post grant opposition.
that provision came to be made only under the patents amendment act2005 which was promulgated on 4 4 2005 w e f 1 1 2005.
ss 116 and 117a were reworded which read as under s 116 1 subject to the provisions of this act the appellate board established u s 83 of the trade marks act1999 shall be the appellate board for the purposes of this act and the said appellate board shall exercise the jurisdiction power and authority conferred on it by or under this act.
2 a person shall not be qualified for appointment as a technical member for the purposes of this act unless he.
b has for at least ten years functioned as a registered patent agent and possesses a degree in engineering or technology or a masters degree in science from any university established under law for the time being in force or equivalent or c has for at least ten years been an advocate of a proven specialized experience in practicing law relating to patents and designs.
save as otherwise expressly provided in sub section 2no appeal shall lie from any decision order or direction made or issued under this act by the central government or from any act or order of the controller for the purpose of giving effect to any such decision order or direction.
16section 17section.
18section.
51section 54section 57section 60section 61section 63section.
66sub s 3 of section 69section.
78sub ss 1 to 5 of section 84section 85section 88section 91s 92 and s 94.
act1970 for the reason that the amended ss 116 and 117a were not brought into force.
act2002on 4 4 2005.
the legislature enacted the patents amendment act2005 even here not all provisions were simultaneously brought into force.
where an application for a patent has been published but a patent has not been granted any person may in writing represent by way of opposition to the controller against the grant of patent on the ground a that the applicant for the patent or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim i in any specification filed in pursuance of an application for a patent made in india on or after the 1st day of january1912 or ii in india or elsewhere in any other document c that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the applicant s claim and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the applicant s claim.
d that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification was publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of that claim.
at any time after the grant of patent but before the expiry of a period of one year from the date of publication of grant of a patent any person interested may give notice of opposition to the controller in the prescribed manner on any of the following grounds namely a that the patentee or the person under or through whom he claims wrongfully obtained the invention or any part thereof from him or from a person under or through whom he claims b that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification has been published before the priority date of the claim c that the invention so far as claimed in any claim of the complete specification is claimed in a claim of a complete specification published on or after the priority date of the claim of the patentee and filed in pursuance of an application for a patent in india being a claim of which the priority date is earlier than that of the claim of the patentee explanation  for the purposes of this clause an invention relating to a process for which a patent is granted shall be deemed to have been publicly known or publicly used in india before the priority date of the claim if a product made by that process had already been imported into india before that date except where such importation has been for the purpose of reasonable trial or experiment only.
3 a where any such notice of opposition is duly given under sub section 2the controller shall notify the patentee.
5 while passing an order under sub s 4 in respect of the ground mentioned in cl d or cl e of sub section.
2the controller shall not take into account any personal document or secret trial or secret use.
act1999 continued to be in operation notwithstanding the enactment of the patents.
on reading amended section 117 g it becomes clear that all appeals against any order or decision of the controller had to be transferred to the appellate board from such date as may be notified by the central government in the official gazette.
this amended section 117 g was also brought into force vide notification dated 3 4 2007 under notes on clauses attached to the statement of objects and reasons it has been clarified vide cl 62.
according to the appellant on 23 8 06 the controller rejected its pre grant opposition and on that day post grant opposition avenue was open to respondent no 3 vide s 252 according to the appellant under the amended s 25 on rejection of pre grant opposition it was open to respondent.
no 3 to move an application opposing grant of patent under s 252 the patent was granted to the appellant on 22 9 06 according to the appellant it was open to respondent no 3 to challenge the grant of patent by making post grant opposition under s 252 from which an appeal was maintainable to the appellate board.
this was not done.
however on that date appeal against pre grant opposition order was maintainable under section 116to the high court and therefore there is no merit in the argument advanced on behalf of the appellant that the first appeal filed by respondent no 3 was misconceived that it is true that s 25 got restructured w e f 1 1 2005however such restructuring did not obliterate the first appeal filed by respondent no 3 on 19 10 2006.
at times provision is made for appointment of different dates for coming into force of different parts of the same act.
applying the above tests to the present case we find that by patents amendment act2005 for the first time a dichotomy was inserted in the patent law by providing vide s 251 for opposition to pre grant and vide s 25 2 for opposition to post grant of patent.
previously the only provision of challenge by an interested party was a pre grant challenge under s 25 1 as it then stood.
act2005is that even after a patent is grantedpost grant opposition can be filed under s 25 2 for a period of one year.
this is the main rationale underlying s 252 of the said 1970 act.
therefore the legislature intended an appeal under section 117a2 to the appellate board from any decision order or direction of the controller inter alia under s 254 which refers to the power of the controller to maintain amend or revoke the patent.
the legislature intended to have a dichotomy between pre grant opposition and post grant opposition.
one more aspect needs to be mentioned.
taking into account the complexities involved in this case on account of a hiatus created by reason of the law not being brought into force in time we are of the view that the first appeals filed by respondent no 3 in the high court being fao.
no 29306would remain in the high court.
no 3 can not be let without remedy.
