these three appeals by special leave are directed against the order dated september 92004 passed by intellectual property appellate board for shortipab whereby it ordered the removal of appellant s mark infosys from the register of trade marks in respect of computer stationery computer manuals printed matter for computer instructional and teaching materials computer hardware and peripherals and machine and machine tools.
the appellant got the trade mark infosys registered in 1987 in classes 16 and 9 in connection with computer stationery computer manuals printed manual for computer instruction and teaching materials computer hardwares computer interface computer peripherals electronics telex interface and in 1988 in class 7 in connection with machine and machine tools and motors not for land vehicles the particulars with reference to the trade mark registered by the appellant are as follows.
on april 211992the name of the company infosys consultants pvt.
the first respondent was incorporated and registered in september 1978 under the name of jupiter agencies pvt.
the name of the first respondent was changed to jupiter infosys p limited in august1995 and now since july2003the name is changed to jupiter international limited.
the ad interim order was confirmed on november 291996.
on august 122003the madras high court framed the following issues.
b whether the respondent had a bonafide intention to use the mark applied for under section 18 of the trade and merchandise marks act.
i am of the opinion that in case ex parte ad interim orders are not granted the relief claimed itself may be rendered infructuous.
accordingly it is directed that pending further consideration of the matter after notice for the next date of hearing the defendants are restrained by themselves their directors employees agents andor others acting on its behalf from using the trade mark corporate name infosys or any other mark name deceptively similar trade mark or colourable imitation thereof as a mark andor corporate name or as part of a mark andor business name in respect of goods andor services for publicity on propaganda on websites and or in domain names in any way whatsoever thereby causing infringement of the registered trade mark infosys of the plaintiff in isolation or in combination with words letters numbers their advertisements as part of their corporate name either in isolation or in goods and services or in or by way of any advertisement publicity campaigns etc.
the relevant statement made in the affidavit dated july 142003 we were informed that the date of the affidavit is july 142004 reads as follows that in the meantime the defendant has already changed the trade mark namely jupiter international ltd in place of jupiter infosys ltd the copy of the incorporation on change of name which was issued by the registrar of the companies are being marked and annexed herewith as annexure a that now there is no dispute between the plaintiff and defendant under the trade mark.
based on this affidavit the suit was partially decreed in favour of the appellant on november 102004.
the ipab in the impugned order while dealing with the plea of limitation raised by the appellant held that the first respondent was the appropriate aggrieved party in the matter in view of the fresh cause of action having arisen to the first respondent on filing of civil suit no 71 of 2001 by the appellant before the madras high court.
we heard mr akhil sibal learned counsel for the appellant and mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent at quite some length.
akhil sibal argued that the ipab committed grave error in relying upon the provisions of the 1999 act and the trade marks rules2002 when these provisions were not applicable as the applications were filed under the 1958 act.
according to him the ipab sought to rely upon computer programming which is a service enumerated in class 42without considering the distinction between a computer programme and computer programming and without noticing the entry computer under class 9 which falls within goods.
akhil sibal learned counsel also argued that the ipab failed to have regard to the proviso to section 461in terms of which it is open to the registered proprietor to rely upon use of the registered trade mark during the relevant period in relation to goods of the same descriptionin order to resist an application for rectification.
6 rpc 311.
learned counsel would submit that the appellant has for the first time argued before this court that the first respondent is not a person aggrieved andor not capable of maintaining the rectification proceedings with respect to each and every good for which the appellant has been registered since the first respondent has not been registered for all the goods.
omar khayyam wineries pvt ltd anr air 1977 mad 166.
1976 indlaw mad 380.
vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent contended that the appellant is registered as a manufacturer and trader under classes 79 and 16 even though it is a company engaged in software only.
lastly he submitted that although no cross objections or cross appeal has been filed the first respondent has some grievance with regard to the order of the ipab in not considering the case set up in the rectification removal applications particularly with regard to section 56 of the 1958 act.
apart from it on september 122005 after hearing both parties special leave was granted by this court.
in the backdrop of these peculiar facts in our view it is not appropriate to relegate the 17 appellant at this distance of time to challenge the impugned order passed by the ipab in writ petition before the high court.
the moot question which has been debated before us is whether or not the first respondent is an aggrieved person.
that the first respondent filed composite applications under sections 46 and 56 of the 1958 act for rectification removal of the trade mark infosys registered in classes 79 and 16 is not in dispute.
47a registered trade mark may be taken off the register in respect of any of the goods in respect of which it is registered on application made in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar by any person aggrieved on the ground either a that the trade mark was registered without any bona fide intention on the part of the applicant for registration that it should be used in relation to those goods by him or in a case to which the provisions of section 45 apply by the company concerned and that there has in fact been no bona fide use of the trade mark in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being up to a date one month before the date of the application or b that up to a date one month before the date of the application a continuous period of five years or longer had elapsed during which the trade mark was registered 18 and during which there was no bona fide use thereof in relation to those goods by any proprietor thereof for the time being provided that except where the applicant has been permitted under sub section 3 of section 12 to register an identical or nearly resembling trade mark in respect of the goods in question or where the tribunal is of opinion that he might properly be permitted so to register such a trade mark the tribunal may refuse an application under clause a or clause b in relation to any goods if it is shown that there has been before the relevant date or during the relevant period as the case may be bona fide use of the trade mark by any proprietor thereof for the time being in relation to goods of the same description being goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
any person aggrieved by the absence or omission from the register of any entry or by any entry made in the register without sufficient cause or by any entry wrongly remaining on the register or by any error or defect in any entry in the register may apply in the prescribed manner to a high court or to the registrar and the tribunal may make such order for making expunging or varying the entry as it may think fit.
section 461 of the 1958 act enables any person aggrieved to apply for removal of registered trade mark from the register on the ground of non use as stated in clause a andor clause b to be an aggrieved person under section 46he must be one whose interest is affected in some possible way it must not be a fanciful suggestion of grievance.
a likelihood of some injury or damage to the applicant by such trade mark remaining on the register may meet the test of locus standi.
we accept the above statement of law.
although both sections namely sections 46 and 56 require person aggrieved to apply for removal of the registered trade mark from the register or rectification of a trade mark in the register the expression person aggrieved for the purposes of these two sections has different connotations.
in hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 2003 11 scc 92this court stated as follows the phrase person aggrieved is a common enough statutory precondition for a valid complaint or appeal.
section 46 deals with the removal of a registered trade mark from the register on the ground of non use.
applications under sections 46 and 56 may be made to the registrar who is competent to grant the relief.
persons aggrieved may also apply for cancellation or varying an entry in the register relating to a certification trade mark to the central government in certain circumstances.
in our opinion the phrase person aggrieved for the purposes of removal on the ground of non use under section 46 has a different connotation from the phrase used in section 56 for cancelling or expunging or varying an entry wrongly made or remaining in the register.
it was in this sense that the house of lords defined person aggrieved in the matter of powell s trade mark although they were no doubt inserted to prevent officious interference by those who had no interest at all in the register being correct and to exclude a mere common informer it is undoubtedly of public interest that they should not be unduly limited inasmuch as it is a public mischief that there should remain upon the register a mark which ought not to be there and by which many persons may be affected who nevertheless would not be willing to enter upon the risk and expense of litigation.
whenever it can be shown as here that the applicant is in the same trade as the person who has registered the trade mark and wherever the trade mark if remaining on the register would or might limit the legal rights of the applicant so that by reason of the existence of the entry on the register he could not lawfully do that which but for the existence of the mark upon the register he could lawfully do it appears to me he has a locus standi to be heard as a person aggrieved.
15 rpc 677which has been reproduced in the report.
secondly and more importantly during the pendency of the applications certain events had taken place which had some bearing on the question of locus standi of the first respondent insofar as invocation of section 46 1 of the 1958 act is concerned.
in the affidavit filed by the first respondent on july 142004 before the court of additional district judge delhi an unequivocal and categorical statement has been made that now there is no dispute between the plaintiff appellant herein and defendant first respondent herein under the trade mark and that defendant has already changed the trade mark namely jupiter international ltd in place of jupiter infosys ltd in terms of section 461not only that the applicant has to show that he is an aggrieved person as his interest is being affected but the ipab must also be satisfied before it directs the removal of registered trade mark that the applicant is an aggrieved person before it invokes the power in directing the removal of the 26 registered trade mark.
this is so because the pre requisite for exercise of power under section 461 is that the applicant is a person aggrieved.
in our view the grievance of the applicant when he invokes section 461 must not only be taken to have existed on the date of making application but must continue to exist when such application is decided.
since the first respondent has also grievance in connection with the impugned order particularly with regard to non consideration of its case under section 56 of the 1958 act we refrain from going into the merits of the diverse contentions raised before us and leave the parties to agitate these contentions before the ipab.
