at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
out of this amount a sum of rs 15000 was paid at that time and it was promised that the balance dowry of rs 10000 would be paid in the month of october2002upon which the marriage was performed.
the accused pathan hussain basha his father pathan khadar basha and mother pathan nazeer abi forced her to get the balance amount of dowry.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
when the parents of the deceased came to the house of the accused and found the deceased hanging from the beam with a saree they untied her and took her to the government general hospital guntur hoping that the deceased may be alive.
however upon medical examination by the doctor she was declared brought dead.
the fir was registered under section 304b and section 498a of the indian penal code1860 for short the ipc thereafter investigation was conducted by one shri p devadass lw 17 he inspected the site from where he recovered and seized the saree that had been used for hanging.
m madhusudana reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia as a result of hanging.
they were committed to the court of sessions guntur division guntur for such an offence.
they faced the trial and the learned sessions judge vide its judgment dated 4th october2004 found them guilty of the said offences and punished them as follows hence a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo r i for three years and further sentenced to pay a fine of rs 1000 each total fine amount rs 3000 offence punishable u s 498 a ipc i d of the fine amount of rs 1000 to undergo si for 9 months.
the high court of andhra pradesh vide its judgment dated 26th october2006while allowing the appeal in part convicted accused nos 1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences however acquitted accused no 3namely pathan khadar basha.
the sentence awarded by the trial court was confirmed.
he had given only rs 15000 and had agreed to pay rs 10000 after four months.
this witness has further specifically stated that the said accused treated his daughter in a proper manner for about two months.
the saree was removed she was taken to the hospital where she was reported to have brought dead.
it is stated by lw 3 that she knew all the accused persons as she was residing in the house of the accused and the deceased.
after seeing this she raised cries and people came to the scene.
according to him the accused persons used to harass the deceased primarily for non payment of the amount of dowry as a result of which she was forced to commit suicide.
in fact there is no dispute to the fact that the deceased died of hanging.
1 the death of a woman should be caused by burns or fatal injury or otherwise than under normal circumstances 2 such death should have occurred within seven years of her marriage 3 she must have been subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband and 4 such cruelty or harassment should be for or in connection with demand for dowry.
11 alongside insertion of section 304 b in ipc the legislature also introduced section 113 b of the evidence act which lays down when the question as to whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for or in connection with any demand for dowry the court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
12 explanation appended to section.
13 if.
section 304 b ipc is read together with section 113 b of the evidence act a comprehensive picture emerges that if a married woman dies in unnatural circumstances at her matrimonial home within 7 years from her marriage and there are allegations of cruelty or harassment upon such married woman for or in connection with demand of dowry by the husband or relatives of the husband the case would squarely come under dowry death and there shall be a presumption against the husband and the relatives.
this penal section clearly spells out the basic ingredients as well as the matters which are required to be construed strictly and with significance to the cases where death is caused by burns bodily injury or the death occurring otherwise than under normal circumstances in any manner within seven years of a marriage.
secondly that soon before her death she had been subjected to cruelty or harassment by the husband or any of the relatives of the husband for or in connection with any demand for dowry then such a death shall be called dowry death and the husband or the relative as the case may be will be deemed to have caused such a death.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
explanation ii  the expression valuable security has the same meaning as in s 30 of the penal code 45 of 1860.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
this court in ran singh v state of haryana2008 4 scc 700 2008 indlaw sc 120 held that the payments which are customary payments for example given at the time of birth of a child or other ceremonies as are prevalent in the society or families to the marriage would not be covered under the expression dowry.
this court held that the word dowry should be any property or valuable given or agreed to be given in connection with the marriage.
the customary payments in connection with birth of a child or other ceremonies are not covered within the ambit of the word dowry.
the definition of dowry is not restricted to agreement or demand for payment of dowry before and at the time of marriage but even include subsequent demands was the dictum of this court in state of a p v.
s 4 of the act is the penal section and demanding a dowryas defined under s 2 of the act is punishable under this section.
as already noticed we need not deliberate on this aspect as the accused before us has neither been charged nor punished for that offence.
further the interpretation given should be one which would avoid absurd results on the one hand and would further the object and cause of the law so enacted on the other.
however there must be existence of proximate link between the acts of cruelty along with the demand of dowry and the death of the victim.
the expression demand for dowry will have to be construed ejusdem generis to the word immediately preceding this expression.
it is of some significance that these expressions should be given appropriate meaning to avoid undue harassment or advantage to either of the parties.
in other words the rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved guilty.
the concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to the criminal jurisprudence.
by a deeming fiction in law the onus shifts on to the accused to prove as to how the deceased died.
denial can not be treated to be the discharge of onus.
onus has to be discharged by leading proper and cogent evidence.
it was expected of the accused to explain as to how and why his wife died as well as his conduct immediately prior and subsequent to the death of the deceased.
his acquittal has not been challenged by the state before us thus we are not called upon to discuss this aspect of the matter.
accused pathan hussain basha and pathan nazeer abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
the offences having been proved against the accused and keeping in view the attendant circumstances we are of the considered view that ends of justice would be met if the punishment awarded to the appellants is reduced.
consequently we award ten years rigorous imprisonment to the appellants.
