but entry 7 a in part v of sch.
there remains the decision of this court in k v krishna murthy iyer v the state of madras in on which mr bhimasankaram strongly relied.
the decision in sarwan singh v the state of punjab 1957 b c r 953 on which reliance has been placed by the high court has been explained by this court in the case of maj e g barsay v the state of bombay.
further according to him the evidence of the approver was found by the additional sessions judge to be unreliable and therefore the first condition referred to in sarwan singh v the state of punjab was not satisfied.
mody v the state of bombay.
i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
what it must now do is to consider the entire evidence and decide for itself whether it is sufficient to bring home all or any of the offences to the respondents.
the decision in queen empress v grees chunder banerjee 1884 i l r 10.
on the strength of these considerations mr chari for the state contends that if the words any offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 10 years were interpreted to mean offences which were punishable with imprinsonment of less than 10 years grave offences which are not exclusively triable by a court of sessions will be completely out of section 337 1.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
according to him under that section only the powers of a district magistrate meaning thereby only the powers under entry 7 a in part v of sch.
the respondent No i alone was convicted of the other two offences.
for the pardon granted in this case can be regarded as being within the ambit of section 337 1 for another reason.
the gravity is of course to be determined with reference to the sentence awardable with respect to that offence.
of course the view taken by the additional sessions judge is not binding on the high court.
he suggests that this provision can also be reasonably interpreted to mean that where the offences are punishable with imprisonment exceeding 10 years pardon may be granted to the approver.
similarly in ram prashad singh v lakhpati koer 1902 i l r 30.
the power to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate is no doubt conferred by the proviso only on the district magistrate.
for it is a rule of construction that all the provisions of a statute are to be read together and given effect to and that it is therefore the duty of the court to construe a statute harmoniously.
therefore since the offence under section 409 was not merely punishable with transportation for life but alternately also punishable with imprisonment which could extend to 10 years section 337 1 would apply.
the offence under section 467 read with section 471 is punishable with imprisonment for life or imprisonment of either description for a period of 10 years but it is exclusively triable by a court of session and therefore in so far as such offence is concerned the argument of mr bhimasankaram would not even have been available.
it is true that the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge of this offence and the offence under section 467 read with section 471 but the validity of a pardon is to be determined with reference to the offence alleged against the approver alone and not with reference to the offence or offences for which his associates were ultimately convicted.
the very object of this provision is to allow pardon to be tendered in cases where a grave offence is alleged to have been committed by several persons so that with the aid of the evidence of the person pardoned the offence could be brought home to the rest.
the offence of conspiracy is an entirely independent offence and though other offences are committed in pursuance of the conspiracy the liability of the conspirators for the conspiracy itself can not disappear.
then again it would not be sufficient for the high court to deal with the evidence in a general way.
the first charge is in respect of the conspiracy alleged to have been entered into by the two respondents k v ramana the approver and others known and unknown to commit criminal breach of trust of the funds of vesco and in order to screen its detection to falsify the accounts of vesco and to use forged documents as genuine.
it will be noticed that transportation for life was not the only punishment provided for an offence under section 409 of the indian penal code even before the amendment made to the indian penal code by section 117 of the act 26 of 1955 the other alternative being imprisonment up to 10 years.
in willie william slaney v the state of madhya pradesh all the learned judges were in agreement on the point that this section and section 535 cover every case in which there is departure from the rules set out in ch.
iii to the code of criminal procedure the power to grant pardon will continue to have that power and therefore a pardon granted by a judicial magistrate in contravention of the government order will not be rendered invalid.
p c for the enhancement of the sentences passed on the respondents.
the state on the other hand preferred an application for revision under section 439 cr.
the offences are of the same kind and must be deemed to have been committed in the course of the same transaction because of association and mutual connection.
the high court should bear this in mind for deciding whether the evidence of the approver should be acted upon or not.
the whole question has again been examined by this court recently in birichh bhuian v the state of bihar subba rao j who delivered the judgment of the court has stated the position thus even if we were to assume that there has been a misjoinder of charges in violation of the provisions of sections 233 to 239 of the code the high court was incompetent to set aside the conviction of the respondents without coming to the definite conclusion that misjoinder had occasioned failure of justice.
on a plain construction of the provisions of section 239 therefore it is open to the court to avail itself cumulatively of the provisions of the different clauses of section 239 for the purpose of framing charges and charges so framed by it will not be in violation of the law the provisions of sections 233 234 and 235 notwithstanding.
he contends that since the offence is punishable with transportation for life section 337 1 could not be availed of for granting pardon to the approver.
this section does not expressly say that the only punishment provided for the offence should be imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
in re the appellant i l r 1957 mad 715 and the cases referred to therein in particular the decision in winson v queen 1866 l r i q b what has been held in all these cases is that where the trial of a person who was charged with having committed an offence or offences jointly with several persons is separated from the trial of those persons he would be a competent witness against them though of course there will always be the question as to what weight should be attached to his evidence.
whether they can or can not be read cumulatively must be determined by consideration of the language used in those clauses.
this section provides that the following persons may be charged and tried together namely 1 persons accused of the same offence committed in the course of the same transaction 2 persons accused of abetment or an attempt to commit such an offence 3 persons accused of different offences committed in the course of the same transaction.
therefore where the alleged offences have been committed in the course of the same transaction the limitation placed by section 234 1 can not operate.
indeed the very expression so far as may be empha sises the fact that while the earlier provisions have to be borne in mind by the court while applying section 239 it is not those provisions but the latter which is to have an overriding effect.
but it should remove from its mind the misconception that the additional sessions judge has not believed him.
mr bhimasankaram then relying upon the decision in r v dawson 1960 2 w l r 435 contended that in any event it was not desirable to try the respondents at the same trial for as many as 83 offences and pointed out that these observations had received the approval of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandimalla subbaiah 1962 2 b c r 194.
all these persons can be jointly tried for offences under section 147 by recourse to cl.
thus while it is clear that the sections preceding section 239 have no overriding effect on that section the courts are not to ignore them but apply such of them as can be applied without detracting from the provisions of s 239.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
whether the evidence of the approver should in any given case be accepted or not will have to be determined by applying the usual tests such as the probability of the truth of what he has deposed to the circumstances in which he has come to give evidence whether he has made a full and complete disclosure whether his evidence is merely self exculpatory and so on and so forth.
iii when it refers to the power of a district magistrate under section 337 1 does not exclude the power under the proviso.
be that as it may there is no substance in the first ground.
the high court allowed the two appeals acquitted the respondents and dismissed the application for revision preferred by the state.
clearly therefore all the accused persons could be tried together in respect of all the offences now comprised in charge No 1.
the same offence committed by all of them is that under section 147 and all of them can be tried jointly in respect of that offence under cl.
the respondent No.
what we have said about pardon in respect of an offence under section 409 would apply equally to that for one under section 120 b because the punishment for it is the same as that for the offence under section 409.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
the better course would be for us to set aside the acquittal of the respondents and send back the appeal to the high court or being decided on merits.
no doubt if this interpretation is accepted the object of the section that is to embrace within it the graver offences would be fulfilled but we wish to express no opinion on it.
in coming to the conclusion that the provisions of various clauses of section 239 can not be applied cumulatively the high court has relied upon the decision in re vankavalapati gopala rao 1956 airandhra 21.
that is why they read rather queer but even so they serve the purpose of allowing certain offences triable by a court of session to be triable also by magistrates of the first class.
there is therefore no warrant for drawing a distinction between the powers of the district magistrate and the powers of a district magistrate.
iii to the code a magistrate first class has the power to grant pardon under section 337 but it is limited by the proviso thereto to certain classes of cases.
now since section 2341 can not be properly read a overriding section 2351 there is no valid reason for construing it as overriding the provisions of section 239 either.
a so also a b and c could be jointly tried together for an offences under section 302.
now if the respondent No 1 were alone tried upon the second third and the fourth charges the provisions of section 2351 could have been pressed in aid if the allegations were that the offences were so connected together as to form one and the same transaction and the validity of the trial would not have been open to any attack.
the high court seems to think that before reliance could be placed upon the evidence of the approver it must appear that he is a penitent witness.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
p c was transportation for life or imprisonment of either description for ten years and fine.
it seems to us that it would not be correct to read section 337 1 in the way sought by learned counsel.
criminal conspiracy as defined in section 120 a and consists of an agreement to do an illegal act or an agreement to do an act which is not illegal by illegal means.
this means that the trial for an offence under section 147 will have to be separated from the trial for the different offences committed by them.
a is unavailable they could not be tried for the offence under section 147 at the same trial.
now of course by the amendment made by section 117 of act 26 of 1955 for the words transportation for life the words imprisonment for life have been substituted but the original structure of all the sections now amended continues.
it could not have been the intention of the legislature to create such a situation.
we may mention that the high court 's observation that the approver 's evidence was treated as unreliable by the learned additional sessions judge is not correct.
a conspiracy must be regarded as one transaction and there fore a single individual charged with it could be tried with the aid of section 2351 for all the acts committed by him in furtherance or in pursuance of the conspiracy without the limitations imposed by s 2341.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
this is quite clear from the provisions of section 537 of the code as amended by act 26 of 1955.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
is also an enabling provision to be availed of in case of doubt and it is meaningless to say that section 239 is subject to section 236.
if pardon is tendered to an accused person and eventually it is found that the pardon is illegal such person is pushed back into the rank of an accused person and being no more than an accomplice would be a competent witness.
similarly z can be charged with offence 's under sections 147 323 and offences under section 302.
but we find it difficult to appreciate what seems to be the view of the high court that because each  clause of section 239 enunciates a separate principle those principles are so to speak mutually exclusive and can not be cumulatively resorted to for trying several persons jointly in respect of several offences even though they form part of the same transaction.
as regards the offence under section 477 a it is one of those sections which are specifically enumerated in section 337 1 and the argument advanced before us and which we have rejected would not even be available with regard to the pardon in respect of that offence.
a and c can not be combined.
the opening words of the section show that it is an enabling provision and therefore the court has a discretion to avail itself cumulatively of two or more clauses.
the first reason is that none of the offences alleged to have been committed falls within section 337 of the code of criminal procedure and the second reason is that the pardon was granted by an authority not empowered to grant it.
to repeat the object of the legislature in enacting section 239 cr.
we do not think that either that or the other objection raised that is that the charge embraces within it all the offences said to have been committed by the respondents can properly.
unless therefore the provisions of section 239 are applicable it would follow that there was a misjoinder of charges.
that is precisely what happened in this case and we do not think that the additional sessions judge adopted a procedure which was either a violation of law or was an abuse of the power of the court.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
a and d of section 239.
the high court will of course be bound by the finding which we have given on the questions of law agitated before us.
the provisions of sub s 2 and 3 of section 235 are enabling provisions and quite plainly can have no overriding effect.
this would lead to unnecessary multiplicity of trials involving avoidable inconvenience to the witnesses and avoidable expenditure of public time and money.
coming to the next ground of attack on the validity of pardon the argument of mr bhimasankaram is that whereas section 337 1 speaks of pardon being granted by a district magistrate or presidency magistrate a sub divisional magistrate or any magistrate of first class except in cases where an enquiry or trial was pending before another magis tratc the pardon here was granted by the additional district magistrate in a case where an enquiry was pending before the district magistrate and is therefore illegal and of no avail.
section 234 can not also be regarded as an overriding provision because reading it that way will lead to the clear result that whereas several accused persons can be charged at the same trial with any number of different offences committed by them in the course of the same transaction they can not be tried also for offences of the same kind exceeding three in number and committed beyond a space of 12 months from the first to the last.
the reason why two alternative maximum sentences are given in col 7 that is transportation for life now imprisonment for life and imprisonment not exceeding 10 years appears to be that the offence is not exclusively triable by a court of session and could also be tried by a magistrate who except when empowered under section 30 would be incompetent to try offences punishable with transportation for life now imprisonment for life and the further reason that it should be open to the court of session instead of awarding the sentence of transportation for life to a convicted person to award him imprisonment in a jail in india itself for a period not execeeding 10 years.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
the only provision in the code which permits the joint trial of more than one person is section 239 and what we have to see is whether under that provision the two respondents could have been jointly tried for the offences with which they were charged.
the magistrate before whom the enquiry or trial is proceeding or the district magistrate would be the only authorities competent to grant a pardon in such a case.
the power conferred by sub s 1 of section 337 on the different clauses of magistrates is of the same character.
no doubt as already stated where offences for committing which a conspiracy was entered into have actually been committed it may not in the particular circumstances of a case be desirable to charge the offender both with the conspiracy and the offences committed in pursuance of that conspiracy.
there nine persons were jointly tried for an offence under section 5 1 c and d of the prevention of corruption act 1947 and section 109 i p c read with s 420 section 466 and section 467 i p c and all except one for offences under sections 420 467471 i p c some of them were also charged with separate offences under some of these provisions.
that in our opinion is not the correct legal position.
for even in the absence of those words the earlier provisions could not have been ignored.
a of section 239.
what is necessary to consider is whether applying all these tests we should act upon the evidence of the approver should be acted upon.
it was contended by mr chari that the expression former part would apply to the first sub division of chapter xix which deals with the form and content of the charges and the powers of the court with regard to the absence of charge and alteration of charge.
xix ranging from error omissions and irregularities in charges that are framed down to charges that might have been framed and were not and include a total omission to frame a charge at all at any stage of the trial.
the original managing agency agreement in favour of aeco with respect to vesco was for a period of 15 years i e from 1933 to 1948 and was later renewed for the remaining term of the currency of the licence granted by the government under the electricity act.
the power of a district magistrate to grant pardon has been specifically conferred on additional district magistrates as would appear from section No 37 of sch.
it is permissible therefore for the prosecution to lead evidence to drove both these facts.
as distinguished from the power under the proviso to section 337 1 can be conferred upon an additional district magistrate.
the high court set aside the conviction of the respondents on a number of grounds.
no doubt under entry 9 a in part iii of sch.
according to mr bhimasankaram the pardon tendered to the approver was illegal and if the pardon is illegal his evidence is wholly inadmissible.
therefore a pardon granted by him in such a case would be illegal.
in such circumstances what the court has to consider is whether prejudice has in fact been caused to the accused by reason of the multiplicity of charges or misjoinder if any of the charges.
the aeco as managing agents of vesco had appointed in the year 1939 one d v appala raju a trusted employee as its representative and as the secretary of vesco.
d by itself all of them can be tried jointly for the different offences committed by each of them in the course of the same transaction and if cl.
the object in saying what has been set out in the first charge was only to give notice to the respondents as to the ambit of the conspiracy to which they will have to answer and nothing more.
in so far as the respondent No 2 is concerned the high court has held that since he was charged with a specific offence under s 409 i p c he could not be convicted of mere abetment of an offence.
it is difficult to appreciate what purpose would be served by separating the trial for the same offence from the trial for different offences.
he contends that section 337 1 speaks of the district magistrate which expression does not include an additional district magistrate.
be said to vitiate the charge.
the court has in addition to ascertain whether his evidence has been corroborated sufficiently in material particulars.
no corresponding advantage can be gained by the accused persons by following the procedure of separate trials.
bhimasankaram supporting the view taken by the high court then contends that it is not permissible to frame a charge of conspiracy when the matter has proceeded beyond the stage of conspiracy and that in pursuance of it offences have actually been committed.
p c clearly was to prevent multiplicity of trials and not only would that object be defeated but an extraordinary result will ensue if the various clauses of section 239 are read disjunctively.
it would be necessary for it to consider for itself the evidence adduced by the prosecution on the specific charges and then to conclude whether those charges have been established or not.
no doubt the offence mentioned in charge No i is alleged to have been committed not by just one person but by all the accused and the question is whether all these persons can be jointly tried in respect of all these offences.
as we are remanding the appeal to the high court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the evidence of the approver.
similarly there is section 5 of the evidence act which reads thus it is the case of the prosecution that the alleged payments were never made by vesco to the various firms.
if the intention of the legislature was that the provisions of these clauses should be available only alternatively it would have used the word or and not and which has the opposite effect.
unless we read section 2341 as not enacting a fetter on section 2351 it may not be possible to give full effect to the latter.
with these observations we set aside the acquittal of the respondents and remit the appeal to the high court for decision on merits in the light of our observations.
full effect can not possibly be given to this provision if we hold that it is subject to the limitation of s 2341.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
the section itself shows that the motivating factor for an approver to turn what in england is called king 's evidence is the hope of pardon and not any noble sentiment like contrition at the evil in which he has participated.
ramana made false entries on seven different dates in the account books between september 19 1947 and march 18 1952 and thus committed an offence under section 477 a i p c the fourth charge is that the two respondents along with the approver.
a case under enquiry or trial before another magistrate does not fall in any of these classes.
again as already stated section 2341 does not override the provisions of section 2351 which permits trial of a person for more offences than one committed during any period provided they are so connected together as to form one transaction.
absence of entries in their account books would be inconsistent with the receipt of the accounts and would thus be a relevant fact which can be proved under section 11.
the argument before the high court was and before us is that the absence of an entry can not of electricity duty to government.
the approver 's evidence was held by the high court to be inadmissible because the pardon granted to him was illegal.
it is under these provisions that the account books of the firms must be held to be relevant.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
therefore even if the expression same transaction alone had been used in section 2351 it would have meant a transaction consisting either of a single act or of a series of connec ted acts.
does this mean that the provisions of section 233 234 235 and 236 must also be complied with.
in that case this court upheld the order of the high court of madras in quashing the charges in the exercise of its inherent powers even before the conclusion of the trial.
both the sets of facts are relevant that is non receipt of the amounts by the firms and non existence of entries in their account books pertaining to those amounts.