this in our opinion is elementary and fundamental to the jurisdiction of the industrial tribunal in revising wage scales.
in the present case the industrial tribunal on a consideration of the material placed before it came to the conclusion that the company was in an undoubted position to bear the additional financial burden.
nor can it be doubted that fitment into the revised pay scales is certainly a part of the revision of pay scales.
it is an accepted principle that consent by a party can not confer jurisdiction on a court.
implicit and intrinsically connected with the question of revision of the wage scales were the questions of fitment of employees into the wage scales and flat or ad hoc increase of salaries of workmen wherever considered necessary.
it functions as a consulting organisation and a service industry and does not manufacture any product or carry on trade.
it must not be a mistake or error which calls for rectification by modification of the conscious adjudication on the issues involved.
even so we propose to examine whether the correction sought by the employees union was within the bounds of the authority of the tribunal or whether it was in effect a fresh award.
is the instant case one where the amendment made by the tribunal in the original award can be said to correct a mere clerical mistake or error arising from an accidental slip or omission.
tata consultant engineers at its inception was a partnership firm but subsequently the partnership was dissolved and in 1974 the undertaking became one of the divisions of tata sons limited.
the corrigendum amending the award in consequence is liable to be quashed.
this appeal by special leave has been preferred by tata consultancy engineers against an award dated 20th december1978 of the industrial tribunal maharashtra bombay revising the wage scales of certain categories of employees and granting various other benefits.
the order of the court was as follows.
it is not possible to maintain one part of the award and supersede another.
it can not possibly be doubted that an industrial tribunal deciding upon the wage scales of the employees of an establishment would have full liberty to propose ad hoc increase of salaries as part of the revision of wages.
the original award was completed and signed by the tribunal and it can not be reopened now except for the limited purpose of rule 31 in travelling outside and beyond the terms of the original award the tribunal has committed a jurisdictional error.
the claim of the union was resisted by the appellant who maintained that the existing wage scales were fair and reasonable on a region cum industry basis and that it would not be possible for the appellant to bear the additional financial burden if the demands of the union were accepted.
the terms of reference in the state government 's order required the tribunal to revise the scales of pay and dearness allowance and there was no mention of giving any ad hoc increase in the basic pay of individual workman.
the tribunal has given satisfactory reason for adopting a different mode and we are not disposed to interfere with the award of the tribunal.
in the circumstances the order of 22nd december1978 is invalid so far as it amends paragraph 23 of the original award.
that the increase was pertinent to the general pay scales in the revised wage structure is patently clear from a comparison of the existing pay scales and the revised pay scales.
it is urged that the amendment results in the inclusion of a flat increase of rs 150 to each workman in the case of draughtsman and rs 100 to each workman in the case of other categories a result wholly unwarranted it is said by the intent of the original award and therefore falling beyond the jurisdiction of the tribunal.
the primary and basic question considered by the industrial tribunal in making the award dated december 201978 was the question of revision of the wage scales.
accordingly the contention raised on behalf of the appellant against retrospectivity of the wage scales must be rejected.
to answer the question it is necessary to examine the basis of the award and the intent which flows from that basis.
the only contention of the workmen is that the tribunal should have fixed the dearness allowance in communion with the cost of living index.
it must be a mistake or error amenable to clerical correction only.
the application before the tribunal was filed under rule 31 of the bombay industrial disputes rules 1957which is as follows.
while we find lot of force in the submission of shri v m tarkunde learned counsel for the workmen that dearness allowance linked to cost of living index is ordinarily the best and the most scientific method of computing dearness allowance it can not always be said that an illegality warranting interference under article 136 is committed if some other method is adopted.
individual workmen were not present to the mind of the tribunal.
they served a charter of demands in july1974on the appellant and as their demands were not accepted and conciliation proceedings proved fruitless the state government made a reference of the dispute under s 101 dindustrial tribunal maharashtra for adjudication.
for the purpose of determining the financial capacity of the appellant the tribunal followed unichem laboratories v their workmen 1972 indlaw sc 181 where it was held that the gross profits should be computed without making deductions on account of taxation development rebate and depreciation.
the challenge embodied in the second contention against the amendment of the award is more serious.
the omission of the words to each employee first after the figure rs 150 and again after the figure rs 100 was clearly an accidental slip or omission which the tribunal was entitled to correct.
at the end of paragraph 15 of the award the tribunal stated but there can be no doubt that the company can very well bear the additional burden.
it is only a clerical mistake or error which can be corrected and the clerical mistake or error must arise from an accidental slip or omission in the award.
the second contention of the appellant is entitled to succeed.
reference was also made to bengal chemical pharmaceutical works limited v its workmen.
what is without jurisdiction will remain so.
it was urged that the efficiency bar as a feature of the wage scales should be removed.
the question is what should be the extent of such burden.
reliance was placed on the hindustan times ltd new delhi v their workmen 1964 1 scr 234 1962 indlaw sc 436247 where it was observed by this court that dearness allowance should not remain fixed at any figure but should be on a sliding scale in order to neutralise a portion of the increase in the cost of living.
on the other hand the endorsement reads as if there was tacit agreement on the part of the company to the correction sought by the union.
out of 665 employees at bombay the draftsmen and the administrative staff number 306 these workmen are members of the tata consultant employees union.
the jurisdiction given to the tribunal by rule 31 is closely circumscribed.
the amendment has resulted in the tribunal making as it were a supplementary award whereby a further relief is being granted beyond that granted in the original award.
the union filed a statement before the tribunal claiming an upward revision of the wage scales and dearness allowance and an increase from fifteen years to twenty years in the span for earning annual increments.
the financial capacity of the appellant and the related study of its annual profits from 1968 to 1977were examined from that view point.
the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal also does not reveal that there was any opposition by the company to the application for correcting the award.
the endorsement made on the application by the advocate for the company does not indicate that the company had any objection to the award being corrected as sought by the employees union.
an accidental slip or omission implies that something was intended and contrary to that intention what should not have been included has been included or what should have been included has been omitted.
we therefore see no ground for quashing the order dated december 221978 of the tribunal.
it would do well to recall that the claim of the union filed before the tribunal also centered on the need to revise the wage scales.
december1978the union invoked the jurisdiction of the.
the addition was integrated as a feature of the wage scales it was not regarded as an addition to the pay of each individual workman.
if as the tribunal has stated in the amendment order the increase in paragraph 23 was intended to apply to each individual workmen there is nothing in the body of the award to form the foundation on which the actual figures in the restructured pay scales can be made to rest.
we are not impressed with the submission of the learned counsel for the company that the corrigendum was in effect a fresh award.
in making the application of 22nd.
the sufficiency of the existing pay scales was considered in detail and regard was had to their original structure and the accretions made subsequently by way of dearness allowance and house rent allowance.
the result of the foregoing discussion is that civil appeal no 2299 of 1979 has to be dismissed in its entirety.
the evidence contained in the award throughout provides incontrovertible proof that this flat increase was never originally intended in the award.
the dearness allowance it was claimed should be granted on a slab system.
in the result both the appeals are dismissed without any order as to costs.
it seems that the tribunal was betrayed by a curious confusion in accepting the plea of the union that a flat increase to the pay of each workman was intended in the original wage and consequently it fell into the error of amending the award.
it was open to the tribunal to adopt the position which it did.
if the dearness allowance is linked with the cost of living index the whole award will have to be reopened and the entire basis on which it has been made will have to be reconsidered.
the charter of demands was presented by the union in july1974 and when conciliation proceedings failed the state government made the reference to the industrial tribunal in 1975 the tribunal has referred to various considerations which prevailed with it in giving retrospectivity to the revised pay scales.
accordingly the appeal filed by the workmen must fail.
in proceeding to revise the wage structure the tribunal took into account the two principles involved in the process the financial capacity of the industry to bear the burden of an increased wage bill and the prevailing wage structure on an industry cum region basis.
holding it impossible in the circumstances to apply the principle of industry cum region basis the tribunal turned to a consideration of the financial capacity of the company to bear an additional burden in this connection it proceeded on the footing that the appellant was a separate and independent division of tata sons limited and had no functional integrality with the other divisions.
it can not be the case of the union that the figure of rs 5 lakhs mentioned in paragraph 33 of the award represented the result of adding a flat increase to the pay of each workman in addition to the benefits conferred by the revised pay scales and other awarded reliefs.
the amendment made by the tribunal has the effect of providing a second increase this time to each individual workmen.