in shree meenakshi mills ltd v union of india 1974.
the other is that it is a matter of serious concern to the public interest.
the union of india is entitled to the costs of the appeal and the writ petition in the high court.
notwithstanding that the price fixation is a legislative activity the subordinate legislation had taken care here to provide for a review.
the legislative activity being a subordinate or delegated legislative activity it must necessarily comply with the statutory conditions if any no more and no less and no implications of natural justice can be read into it unless it is a statutory condition.
any decision taken by the government can not be confined to the individual manufacturer seeking review but must necessarily affect all manufacturers of the bulk drug as well as the consumer public.
we therefore condone the delay grant special leave in all the petitions for special leave and direct the appeals to be listed for hearing on may 1 1987.
however the interests of the manufacturers are not to be ignored.
order is not a legislative activity but a quasi judicial activity which would attract the observance of the principles of natural justice.
it was just the other day that our brothers ranganath misra and m m dutt jj had to give directions in a case vincent panikurbangara v union of india where a public spirited litigant had complained about the unscrupulous exploitation of the indian drug and pharmaceutical market by multinational corporations by putting in circulation low quality and even deleterious drugs.
it may be questioned on the ground of a denial of the right guaranteed by article 14 if it is arbitrary that is if either the guidelines prescribed for the determination are arbitrary or if even though the guidelines are not arbitrary the guidelines are worked in an arbitrary fashion.
it is certainly not a matter at which the court could take a hand.
in vrajlal manilal co v union of india anr 1964 indlaw sc 194 supra the court held that the union of india when disposing of an application for review under rule 59 of the mines concession rules functioned as a quasi judicial authority and was bound to observe the principles of natural justice.
what is necessary is that the average cost of production by an efficient manufacturer must be ascertained and a reasonable return allowed on net worth.
the enquiry obviously is not to be confined to obtaining information from the manufacturers only and indeed must go beyond.
the legislative character of the activity is not shed and an administrative or quasi judicial character acquired merely because guidelines prescribed by the statutory order have to be taken into account.
we consider that such orders are against the public interest and ought not to be made by a court unless the court is satisfied that no public interest is going to be served.
a legislative act is the creation and promulgation of a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases an administrative act is the making and issue of a specific direction or the application of a general rule to a particular case in accordance with the requirements of policy.
order is an enquiry of the former character.
in new india sugar works v state of uttar pradesh 1981 2 scc 293 1981 indlaw sc 217 there was an indication though it was not expressly so stated that the question of observing natural justice did not arise in cases of price fixation.
these are not matters for investigation in a petition under article 226 of the constitution or under article 32 of the constitution.
we think that in matter of this nature where prices of essential commodities are fixed in order to maintain or increase supply of the commodities or for securing the equitable distribution and availability at fair prices of the commodity it is not right that the court should make any interim order staying the implementation of the notification fixing the prices.
but it does not follow that the notification fixing the maximum price must necessarily be struck down as obsolete by the mere passage of time.
it is intended to operate in the future.
though we see considerable force in the submission of shri diwan we think that the circumstances of the instant cases do justify the exercise of our discretion to condone the delay.
all that the court may do is to direct the government to dispose of the review application expeditiously according to a time bound programme.
the primary object of the enquiry is to secure the bulk drug at a fair price for the benefit of the ultimate consumer an object designed to fulfil the mandate of article 39b of the constitution.
one is that all the writ petitions were disposed of by a common judgment and an appeal had been filed in the principal case.
the former is an enquiry leading to a legislative activity while the latter is an enquiry which ends in an administrative or quasi judicial decision.
it is difficult to give it a label and to fit it into a pigeon hole legislative administrative or quasi judicial.
in laxmi khandsari v state of uttar pradesh 1981 2 scc 600 1981 indlaw sc 558 it was held that the sugar cane control order 1966 was a legislative measure and therefore rules of natural justice were not attracted.
it is a hearing which follows a subordinate legislative activity intended to provide an opportunity to affected persons such as the manufacturers the industry and the consumer public to bring to the notice of the subordinate legislating body the difficulties or problems experienced or likely to be experienced by them consequent on the price fixation whereupon the government may make appropriate orders.
in such a situation while such enquiry by the subordinate legislating body as it deems fit is a condition precedent to the subordinate legislation the nature and the extent of the enquiry is in the discretion of the subordinate legislating body and the subordinate legislation is not open to question on the ground that the enquiry was not as full as it might have been.
nothing in the scheme of the drugs prices control.
the problem is that of high prices bearing it is said little relation to the cost of production to the manufacturers.
it is true that the price of a bulk drug is dependent on innumerable variables.
it is a curious amalgam of a hearing which occasionally precedes a subordinate legislative activity such as the fixing of municipal rates etc.
here again the enquiry by the government need not be restricted to an efficient manufacturer or some manufacturers nor need it be extended to all manufacturers.
the enquiry contemplated by paragraph 3 of the drug prices control.
the order made under section 32c which is not in respect of a single transaction nor directed to particular individual is clearly a legislative act while an order made under section 33c which is in respect of a particular transaction of compulsory sale from a specific individual is a non legislative act.
a manufacturer was under the provisions of that order free to continue to sell the drug at the price reported by him to the central government at the time of the commencement of the order but was under an obligation not to increase the price without the prior approval of the central government.
no doubt the order as made on november 25 1981 has the manufacturers on terms but the consumer public has been left high and dry.
in the present case on ex parte interim order was made on april 20 1981 in the following terms in the meanwhile on the petitioners giving an undertakings to maintain prices both for bulk and formulation as were prevailing prior to the impugned notification we stay implementation of the impugned bulk drug prices as well as formulation prices.
but whatever procedure is adopted it must be a procedure tuned to the situation.
the right here given to rate payers or others is in the nature of a concession which is not to detract from the character of the activity as legislative and not quasijudicial.
however we think that it is necessary to give a direction to the government to dispose of the review applications after giving a notice of hearing to the manufacturer.
we are unable to say that the subordinate legislating authority acted unreasonably in prescribing the norms in the manner it has done.
if the function is treated as legislative in nature there is no right to notice and hearing unless a statute expressly requires them.
after referring to hari shanker bagla v state of madhya pradesh 1955 1 scr 380 1954 indlaw sc 135 union of india v bhanamal gulzarimal 1960 2 scr 627 1959 indlaw sc 127 sri krishna rice mills v joint director food 1965 indlaw sc 93 unreported state of rajasthan v nathmal and mithamal 1954 scr 982 1954 indlaw sc 66 narendra kumar v union of india 1960 2 scr 375 1959 indlaw sc 61 panipat co operative sugar mills v union of india 1973 1 scc 129 1972 indlaw sc 155 anakapalle co operative agricultural industrial society ltd v union of india.
we agree that applications for review must be dealt with expeditiously and whenever they are not so dealt with the aggrieved person may seek a mandamus from the court to direct the government to deal with the review application within a time framework.
it is primarily from the consumer public 's point of view that the government is expected to make its enquiry.
it may also be questioned on any ground on which a subordinate legislation may be questioned such as being contrary to constitutional or other statutory provisions.
the right of the citizen to obtain essential articles at fair prices and the duty of the state to so provide them are transformed into the power of the state to fix prices and the obligation of the producer to charge n6 more than the price fixed.
such situations may arise when the owner of property or goods is compelled to sell his property or goods to the government or its nominee and the price to be paid is directed by the legislature to be determined according to the statutory guidelines laid down by it.
on the conclusions arrived at by us we have no doubt that the appeal must be allowed and the writ petition in the high court dismissed.
hus the ups and downs of commerce are inevitable and it is not possible to devise a fool proof system to take care of every possible defect and objection.
we think that the question has to be decided with reference to the definition of free reserve in paragraph 2g of the control order and not on any assumed principle of accountancy.
nor is there anything in the scheme or the provisions of the drugs prices control order which otherwise contemplates the observance of any principle of natural justice or kindred rule the non observance of which would give rise to a cause of action to a suitor.
we notice that in all these matters the high court granted stay of implementation of the notifications fixing the maximum prices of bulk drugs and the retail prices of formulations.
in the context of the drug industry with which we are concerned and in regard to which the control order is made we must proceed on the basis that the manufacturers of bulk drugs are generally persons who know all that is to be known about the price fixed by the government.
so long as the method prescribed and adopted by the subordinate legislating body is not arbitrary and opposed to the principal statutory provisions it can not be legitimately questioned.
the need of the consumer public is to be ascertained and making the drug available to them at a fair price is what it is all about.
1973 3 scc 435 1972 indlaw sc 334 and premier automobiles ltd v union of india 1972.
on the question of the scope of a review the learned counsel for the respondents invited our attention to vrajlal manilal co v union of india anr 1964 7 scr 97 1964 indlaw sc 194 shivaji nathubhai v union of india ors 1960 2 scr 775 1960 indlaw sc 430 maneka gandhi 1978 2 scr 621 1978 indlaw sc 212 swadeshi cotton mills 1981 2 scr 533 1981 indlaw sc 349 and liberty oil mills.
in other words the review if it is fruitful must result in fresh subordinate legislative activity.
for this purpose too the government may gather information from any source including the manufacturers.
their interests have in no way been taken care of.
all that the government may do is to dispose of the review application with the utmost expedition.
it is a direction of a general character not directed against a particular situation.
in matters of fixation of price it is the interest of the consumer public that must come first and any interim order must take care of that interest.
it is made clear that the undertaking is without prejudice to the petitioners right to take appropriate directions from the supreme court if so advised in this regard.
we are of the view that the undertakings given by the parties in the present cases were intended to and do continue to subsist.
the test of validity is constituted by the nexus shown between the order passed and the purposes for which it can be passed or in other words by reasonableness judged by possible or probable consequences.