plaintiff filed the suit for redemption of the said mortgages in the year 1966 defendant 2brother of defendanti had been joined in that suit on the allegation that the latter was put in possession of mortgage properties by the former subsequent to the coming into existence of the mortgages.
defendants 1 and 2 for redemption of suit properties which were mortgaged as security for certain monies borrowed by the plaintiff from defendant l under two deeds of mortgage executed in the year 1961.
in the case of a lease the estate that is outstanding in the lessor is the reversion in the case of a mortgage the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagor.
nagappa shankarappa malaga and others 1976 indlaw sc 400 and gambangi appalaswamy naldu and others v behara venkataramanayya patro.
moreover if a lessee of a property takes a mortgage of the sum property from the landlord it would be unreasonable to attribute to a tenant the intention to surrender the tenancy and to invoke the sophisticated doctrine of implied surrender as has been held by the gujarat high court in patel atmaram nathudas v babubhai keshavlal 1974 indlaw guj 88.
this civil appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment and decree dated 29th november1977 rendered by a single judge of the gujarat high court in second appeal no 348 of 1973which arose out of regular civil suit no 921 of 1966 filed in the court of joint civil judge baroda civil court by the appellant herein as plaintiff against respondents 1 and 2 herein.
in the case of a mortgage the estate that is outstanding is the equity of redemption of the mortgagor.
the civil court notwithstanding the defence of the defendants taken in their written statements that the suit had to be stayed for obtaining the finding on their claim of tenancy under the bt al act framed the issues in the suit on the basis of the pleadings of the parties and after trial recorded its findings thereon.
him by the landlord lessor on a mortgage by conditional sale as would debar the tenant from desisting the suit of the landlord mortgagor for recovery of possession of such property by obtaining decree for redemption of the mortgage.
in support thereof he sought to place reliance on the decisions of this court in shah mathuradas maganlal and co v.
hence the lease hold of a tenant lessee in a property does not merge in mortgage security of that property even if it is given to.
in this regard support was sought from the decision of this court in raizada topandas and another v m s gorakhram gokalchand 1963 indlaw sc.
accordingly there can not be a merger of a lease and a mortgage in respect of the same property since neither of them is a higher or lesser estate than the other.
section 70 of the bt al act to which we have adverted already imposes a duty on the mamlatdar to decide whether a person is an agriculturist or a tenant or a protected tenant or a permanent tenant when such person claims to be so under that act.
even if the rights of the lessee and the rights of the mortgagee in respect of a property were to be united in one person the reversion in regard to the lease and the equity of redemption in regard to the mortgage would be outstanding in the owner of the property and accordingly there would not be a complete fusion of all the rights of ownership in one person.
the defence in those written statements was that defendant l and his family members had become tenants of the suit properties in the year 1959 1960 and had continued to be such tenants at the time of mortgage deeds executed in respect of those properties in the year 1961 and thereafter.
if therefore the plaintiff in his plaint does not admit a relation which would attract any of the provisions of the act on which the exclusive jurisdiction given under s 28 depends we do not think that the defendant by his plea can force the plaintiff to go to a forum where on his averments he can not go.
the issue relating to their claim that they were tenants of the said properties the agricultural lands as urged therein had to be referred by the civil court to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act1948 the bt al act for recording his finding thereon and the suit had to be stayed pending receipt of the finding thereon so that the suit may be finally disposed of on the basis of such finding.
thus the provisions in the bt al act give no scope or room to think that the plea of tenancy if raised by the defendants in a suit in a civil court the same could be decided by the civil court.
further section 85 of the bt al act to which also we have already adverted in unequivocal terms says that in deciding any issue which is required to be decided by the mamlatdar under the bt al act no civil court has jurisdiction to decide it.
in the case of a lease the estate that is in the lessor is a reversion.
what is enunciated in section 111 d of the t p act can not be doubted is the doctrine of merger.
if that be the position there can be no bar for the defendants to claim the right to continue in possession of the suit properties as tenants under the bt.
shah mathuradas case 1976 indlaw sc 400 supra was that where the respondent had executed a mortgage in favour of the appellant respecting a premises of which he was a tenant.
on the basis of findings so recorded by the civil.
however the defendants questioned the judgments and decrees of the trial court and the appellate court by filing a second appeal against the same in the high court of gujarat.
such findings were firstly that the defendants had failed to prove that the suit properties were sold in favour of defendant l subsequent to the giving of security of those properties in his favour under the mortgage deeds secondly that the defendants had failed to prove the past tenancy of the suit properties on its view that what was pleaded by them in the written statements was tenancy prior to the date of filing of the suit and thirdly that the mortgages of the suit properties were mortgages by conditional sale.
court it also made a preliminary decree in favour of the plaintiff for redemption of the suit properties.
according 10 him a mortgagee in possession being a person who can not be deemed to be a tenant under section 4 of the bt al act it was not open to the defendants to claim that they were the tenants of suit properties and if that be so question of raising issue of tenancy by the civil court in the suit before it did not arise at all nor was it necessary to refer such issue to the mamlatdar under section 85 a of the bt al act and stay the suit till receipt of the finding on such issue as was directed by the high court in its judgment under appeal.
the defence of the appellants defendants in substance was that the agreement on which reliance was placed by the respondents in their suit was a sham agreement and that the appellants in reality were the tenants of the shop and the relationship between the respondents and appellants was that of the landlord and tenant.
the transfer of property act1882 tp act 111 a lease of immoveable property determines a b c d in case the interests of the lessee and the lessor in the whole of the property become vested at the same time in one person in the same right.
secondly this court held that the appellant was not entitled to retain after redemption possession of the mortgage property by reason of his previous right to be in its possession as a tenant.
agricultural lands at the time of execution of the deeds of mortgage by conditional sale in his favour because of the coming into existence of such mortgages there occurred merger of lease hold rights of defendant l in suit properties when he obtained those properties as mortgage security under the said mortgages and as a consequence he became a mortgagee in possession of those properties.
furthermore section 85a as it stood prior to its amendment by gujarat amendment act no 5 in the year 1973 and as stands thereafter requires that if any suit instituted in civil court involves the question of tenancy of present or pastas the case may be the same being required to be decided or dealt with by an authority competent under the bt al act the civil court has to stay the suit and refer the issue to such competent authority for determination and after receiving the decision thereon to dispose of the suit in accordance with such decision.
if on the other hand it is found that having regard to the nature of the suit it is not cognizable by the class of court to which the court belongs the plaintiff 's suit will have to be dismissed in its entirety.
if the jurisdiction is only one relating to territorial limits or pecuniary limits the plaint will be ordered to be returned for presentation to the proper court.
in any event it was not the case of the plaintiff that defendant l was a tenant of the suit properties and hc surrendered his possession of the suit properties either expressly or impliedly and the possession so obtained by the plaintiff was re delivered to defendant l in pursuance of the mortgages by conditional sale executed in his favour.
the argument which was strenuously advanced on behalf of the appellant plaintiff was that in a suit for redemption filed by the mortgagor in a civil court in respect of property notwithstanding the plea of the defendants claim that they were tenants of that property under the bt al act and under the provisions of that act the issue of tenancy had to be referred by the civil court to the mamlatdar for recording a finding thereon and the civil court can proceed to dispose 0.
it was also claimed therein that they had become owners of the said properties when the plaintiff in the year 1962 sold those properties to defendant 1 by receiving a sum of rs 4400 as consideration for the sale.