vs state of jammu kshmir ors.
vs union of india and others 1987 supp.
presumption as to adverse inference for non production of evidence is always optional and one of the factors which is required to be taken into consideration in the background of facts involved in the lis.
in the instant case the industrial tribunal did not draw any adverse inference against the appellant.
the burden was on the appellants to establish that they had a right to invoke the said doctrine in terms of article 14 of the constitution of india.
it was therefore impermissible for the state to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
the appointments of the appellants were therefore void ab initio being opposed to public policy as also violative of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
the presumption thus is not obligatory because notwithstanding the intentional non production other circumstances may exist upon which such intentional non production may be found to be justifiable on some reasonable grounds.
they were not therefore entitled to take the recourse of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work as adumbrated in articles 14 and 39d of the constitution of india.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
the said dispute was referred for adjudication of the labour court indore by the state of madhya pradesh on the following questions.
vis a vis the 1973 act and the rules framed thereunder.
who made the appointments of the appellants to the project or other works carried on by the authority is not known.
no material was placed before the high court as to the nature of the duties of either categories and it is not possible to hold that the principle of equal pay for equal work is an abstract one.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
the 1973 act as noticed hereinbefore clearly mandates that all posts should be sanctioned by the state government and all appointments to the said cadre must be made by the state government alone.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
in state of haryana and another vs tilak raj and others 2003 6 scc 123 2003 indlaw sc 512 it was held a scale of pay is attached to a definite post and in case of a daily wager he hold no posts.
the respondent workers can not be held to hold any posts to claim even comparison with the regular and permanent staff for any or all purposes including a claim for equal pay and allowances.
it was within its jurisdiction to do so particularly having regard to the nature of the evidence adduced by the respondent.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
see orissa university of agriculture technology and another vs manoj k mohanty 2003 5 scc 188 2003 indlaw sc 348.
the labour court on the basis of the materials produced before it arrived at the following findings 1.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
regularisation can not be claimed as a matter of right.
in dr a k jain and others etc.
the proviso appended to section 47 of the adhiniyam further mandates that no post shall be created in any authority without the prior sanction of the state government.
they were not appointed in terms of the provisions of the statute.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
the respondent authority is a state within the meaning of article.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
mr v r reddy learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would contend that indisputably the appellants were engaged by the respondent authority but such appointments were made for the purpose of the project financed by oda.
all actions of the state must conform to the constitutional requirements.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
the above burden having not been discharged and the labour court having held so in our opinion the industrial court and the high court erred in basing an order of re instatement solely on an adverse inference drawn erroneously.
the terms of conditions of service contained in the 1973 act and the 1987 rules are not in derogation of the provisions contained in schedule appended to the 1961 act.
the appellants were appointed by the indore development authority.
for the purpose of regularization which would confer on the concerned employee a permanent status there must exist a post.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
the constitutional scheme which the country has adopted does not contemplate any backdoor appointment.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
the state has not borne any part of the financial burden.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court 's view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
the salary fixed by the commissioner was earlier given to all engineers and later on they were given the salary fixed by the collector.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
in absence of any pleadings the appellants could not have called for any document to show that the provisions of the 1961 act and 1963 rules would apply.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
respondents had also mentioned in their claim that there was a proposal to hand over the colony of oda project to indore municipal corporation.
the project was indisputably to be executed by the indore development authority and for the implementation thereof the appointments had to be made by it.
it is also not in dispute that the state government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the adhiniyam has made rules known as m p development authority services officers and servants recruitment rules 1987.