in the case of ram singh and ors v.
the word shall in sub section 2 of section 4 is mandatory and the consideration of the report of the probationer officer is a condition precedent to the release of the accused as reported in the case of state v naguesh g shet govenkar and anr air 1970.
in the case of r mahalingam v g padmavathi and anr.
in the instant case non production of the order and even non mentioning of the conviction and sentence in the criminal case no 202 of 1997 tantamounts to playing fraud on the court.
such a previous convict can not be released in view of section 4 of the pob act.
the offender can only be released on probation of good conduct under this section when the court forms an opinion having considered the circumstances of the case the nature of the offence and the character of the offender that in a particular case the offender should be released on probation of good conduct.
while extending benefit of this case the discretion of the court has to be exercised having regard to the circumstances in which the crime was committed the age character and antecedents of the offender.
municipal corporation of delhi aggrieved against the judgment and final order dated 26 03 2004 passed by the high court delhi in criminal revision petition no 185 of 2004 by which order the high court gave the benefit of probation under section 4 of the probation of offenders act1958.
it was further contended that the respondent has not contested the revision in the high court on merits and confined his submission to the benefit of section 4 of the pob act being extended to him.
the court is bound to call for a report as per section 4 of pob act but the high court has failed to do so although the court is not bound by the report of the probationer officer but it must call for such a report before the case comes to its conclusion.
it was therefore submitted that the sentence imprisonment awarded by the metropolitan magistrate has been suspended under section 389 of the criminal procedure code by the court of additional sessions judge delhi in view of the pendency of the appeal against the order of conviction is a continuation of proceedings and therefore there is no conviction against the answering respondent so long as the same is not decided by the court of sessions.
the only limitation imposed by section 6 is that in the first instance an offender under twenty one years of age will not be sentenced to imprisonment.
the section itself is clear that before applying the section the magistrate should carefully take into consideration the attendant circumstances.
he further contended that the trial court has committed serious error in exercising jurisdiction while not granting the benefit of probation to the answering respondent and the order of the trial court was therefore rightly and justifiable modified by the high court.
herein after referred to as pob act to the second respondent gurcharan singh but maintained the conviction preferred the above appeal.
the trial court after the conclusion of the trial convicted the second respondent under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act and sentenced him to six months simple imprisonment and imposed a fine of rs 5000 annexure p 1.
it is the specific case of the appellant herein that the high court has not afforded to the appellant an opportunity to file counter affidavit.
it was also submitted that the requirement of calling of a report from the probationer officer under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the counsel for the state of delhi and that the counsel for the mcd also did not raise any objection before the high court.
f i r was prepared on the report of mr m k verma who forwarded the f i r before zonal engineer who ordered to issue notice under section 343344 of the delhi municipal corporation act1957 for short the dmc act subsequently the second respondent along with kuldeep singh were prosecuted for commission of offences under sections 332 and 461 of the dmc act before the designated municipal court.
held the requirement of s 41 was not fulfilled and therefore the case remanded.
sections 4 and 6 of the act indicate the procedure requiring the court to call for a report from the probation officer and consideration of the report and any other information available relating to the character and physical and mental condition of the offender.
the second respondent is a previous convict as per the records placed before us.
in the instant case the magistrate passed order releasing the accused on probation without taking into consideration their character.
in the said case the accused respondent was convicted under section 332461 of the dmc act and sentenced to six months simple imprisonment with a fine of rs 5000.
we therefore have no hesitation in setting aside the order impugned and remit the matter to the high court for fresh disposal strictly in accordance with law.
learned senior counsel appearing for the contesting respondent submitted that the order of the high court does not require any reconsideration by this court and that the high court while extending the benefit of pob act had clearly recorded in the order that the counsel for the state of delhi is not averse to the grant of benefit of probation to the answering respondent and therefore the requirement under section 42 of the pob act has been waived off by the state and that the high court took into consideration the fact that the answering respondent has faced the agony of trial for over 12 years and has also undergone some period in custody and while maintaining the conviction of the answering respondent the benefit of probation was extended to him.
such exercise of discretion needs a sense of responsibility.
in our opinion he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well as on the opposite party.
we have no hesitation to say that a person whose case is based on falsehood has no right to approach the court and he can be summarily thrown out at any stage of the litigation.
this section is intended to attempt possible reformation of an offender instead of inflicting on him the normal punishment of his crime.
before deciding to act under s 4 1it is mandatory on the part of the court to call for a report from the probation officer and if such a report is received it is mandatory on the part of the court to consider the report.
goa 49 1969 indlaw goa 8 and a release without such a report.
thus the contesting respondent has come to the high court with unclean hands and withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side.
if he withholds a vital document in order to gain advantage on the other side then he would be guilty of playing fraud on the court as well on the opposite party.
the second respondent in our opinion was not justified in suppressing the material fact that he was convicted by the magistrate on an earlier occasion.
the appellant would have filed the orders passed by the criminal courts convicting the respondent herein had an opportunity been given to the appellant.