in the case of commissioner of central excise chandigarh v bhalla enterprises 2004.
in the case of consolidated foods corporation v brandon and co.
before concluding we may refer to the judgment of this court in the case of commissioner of central excise mumbai v bigen industries ltd 2006 197.
aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
ltd v.
gaw kan lye v saw kyone saing air 1939.
since the appellants herein had used the trade name meghraj on their products which trade name was owned by m s ltd the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
aggrieved by the decision of the adjudicating authority the assessee preferred appeals to the commissioner a the said appeals were rejected on the ground that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj of another manufacturer m s kay aar biscuits p ltd on their products biscuits and therefore they were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
this question has been decided by the bombay high court in the case of sunder parmanand lalwani and others v caltex india ltd air 1969 bombay 24 1965 indlaw mum 1419 in which it has been held vide paras 32 and 38 as follows a proprietary right in a mark can be obtained in a number of ways.
in a given case like the present case where there is evidence with the department of the trade mark being owned by m s ltd and where there is evidence of the appellants trading on the reputation of m s ltd which is not rebutted by the appellants assesseeissuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect can not confer the benefit of exemption notification to the assessee.
this court has held that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
it is confined to the provisions of the trade marks act.
in the present case issuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect from 30 9 91 will not tantamount to conferment of exemption benefit under the excise law once it is found that the appellants had wrongly used the trade mark of m s.
commissioner of central excise delhi 2005 189.
in the circumstances the judgment of this court in the case of bigen industries 2006 indlaw sc 546 supra has no application.
abandonment of the trade mark has to be proved by the appellants in the present case.
in the present case there is no deed or assignment from m s ltd to the m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd appellants herein as stated above there is no proof of acquisition on payment or consideration by the appellants to m s kay aar biscuits p ltd in the present case there is no evidence of assignment or licence from m s ltd to the appellants.
this deeming fiction can not be extended to the excise law.
our judgment is confined only to the period in question under the impugned show cause notices.
obviously therefore on the label as it stood it could not be said that the respondent company was the proprietor of the mark monarch nor could it be said that the mark was used by the respondent company as proprietor thereof.
under show cause notices it was alleged that the appellants herein assessee have sold the biscuits under the brand name meghrajwhich was a registered trade mark of kay aar biscuits p ltd who was using the said trade mark on manufacture of biscuits themselves and therefore the appellants were not eligible to the benefit of ssi notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 1993 as amended by notification no 5994 ce dated 1 3 1994.
the department has rightly placed reliance on the agreement of 23 11 89 in the circumstances the burden was on the assessee appellants herein to satisfy the adjudicating authority that there was no intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person.
in para 19 of the show cause notice the authority accepted the existence of a deed of assignment.
however the show cause notice denied the exemption on the ground that notification no 14083 ce did not make any distinction between a brand name owned by a person in india or abroad.
accordingly the commissioner a dismissed the appeals.
to summarise therefore a trader acquires a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with his goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade.
in this connection reliance was placed by the commissioner a on the said agreement dated 22 11 89 before the commissioner a the appellants herein contended that they had used the name m s meghraj biscuits industries ltd on the wrapper and not on the product.
the object of the notification is to grant benefits only to those industries which otherwise do not have the advantage of a brand name.
the object of the exemption notification no 193 ce was to grant benefits to those industries which do not have the advantage of a brand name.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
this contention was rejected by the commissioner a on the ground that under the notification no 193 ce as amended exemption was not available to the specified goods bearing brand name or trade name registered or not of another person.
there was no other basis on which those courts could give any relief to the plaintiffs in such cases and for the purpose of such relief the courts of equity did not require the plaintiff to prove that his mark by any length of user was associated in the minds of the public with his goods.
the effect of the relevant provision of the english acts was that registration of a trade mark would be deemed to be equivalent to public user of such mark.
the department had erred in alleging that the trade mark belonged to m s it was urged that m s ltd had never got the trade mark registered under the trade marks act.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
the trade mark exists independently of the registration which merely affords further protection under the statute.
u s 28 of the trade marks act1999registration gives to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the trade marks act.
the object of the notification therefore was to help the ssi units and thereby increased industrial production.
discontinuation of business in respect of a product does not necessarily amount to abandonment.
in the circumstances the department was right in rejecting the above contention.
rich food products p ltd would not be sufficient to prove that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the lawful owner of the brand name.
in in re century spinning and manufacturing co ltd.
priority in adoption and use of a trade mark is superior to priority in registration.
it is correct to say that the registrar trade marks can issue registration certificate u s 28 of the trade marks act with retrospective effect.
the orders of the commissioner a have been confirmed by order dated 11 4 2000 passed by cegat.
for instance under s 23 of the trade marks act registration is to be prima facie evidence of the validity of the trade mark.
it was urged that a false declaration was made by m s kay aar biscuits p ltd under the above agreement on 22 11 89.
on behalf of the appellants it has been vehemently argued that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was never the registered owner of the trade mark meghraj.
he came to the conclusion vide his orders that the trade name meghraj was in the form of a logo printed on the wrapper of the biscuits and therefore the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 as amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 consequently the adjudicating authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992.
it was declared that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
that the same was registered ssi unit that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was lying closed since 1 3 93 and therefore the appellants have been using that logo of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd who was eligible for exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
there is no deed of assignment from m s kay aar biscuits p ltd in favour of the appellants herein.
the respondent company is described as the sole distributors on the label.
even so far as this country is concerned the trade marks act of 1940 does not seem to have made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark as established by the courts of chancery in england.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
it was held that the word meghraj was printed on all the printed wrappers and therefore it was wrong to say that the appellants were not using the brand name meghraj on its products.
registration itself does not create a trade mark.
it does however facilitate a remedy which may be enforced and obtained throughout the state and it established the record of facts affecting the right to the mark.
instead of compelling the holder of a trade mark in every case to prove his proprietary right the act provides a procedure whereby on registration the owner gets certain facilities in the mode of proving his title.
before us it has been urged that m s ltd is non functional since 1 3 93 and therefore in any event appellants were entitled to use the trade mark meghraj.
prior to the acts one could become a proprietor of a trade mark only by user but after the passing of the act of 1875one could become a proprietor either by user or by registering the mark even prior to its user.
the first trade marks act in england was passed in 1875 even prior thereto it was firmly established in england that a trader acquired a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade and that he was entitled to protect such right of property by appropriate proceedings by way of injunction in a court of law.
air 1965 bombay 35 1961 indlaw mum 91it has been held vide paras 27 and 30 that the trade marks act merely facilitates the mode of proof.
that was enough in the eyes of the courts of equity to entitle him to a relief by way of an injunction in case of an infringement of his mark by some other trader.
instead of compelling the holder of a trade mark in every case to prove his proprietary right before he could ask the court to grant him an injunction the trade marks act provides a procedure whereby by registering his trade mark the owner gets certain facilities in the mode of proving his title.
even if it is found to be necessary to decide this question as to property in a trade mark i have already pointed out that the courts of equity in england granted relief in cases of infringement of trade marks on the basis of infringement of the right of property in the trade mark.