in union of india ors vs.
again in jai mangal oraon vs mira nayak smt ors 2000 5 scc 141.
therefore under section 121a of the act in the presence of any of the abovementioned circumstances the high court is empowered to look into the legality of the orders impugned in deciding the question whether the appellants could be held to be the tenants under the respondent nos 3 or 4.
the high court had set aside the order of the land tribunal and remanded the case back to the tribunal for a fresh decision.
act1974 in shortthe act in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction under section 121a of the act even then this is not a fit case where this court in the exercise of its power u art 136 of the constitution would interfere with such an order of the high court.
the appellants in this appeal claiming to be the tenants of agricultural land bearing survey no 1251measuring 3 acres 11 gunthas.
the case of the appellants as made out was disputed by the respondent no 4 the case of respondent no 4 was that the scheduled land was mortgaged to the 3rd respondent rajashankar in the year 1968 and after the expiry of the said mortgage the mortgagee was liable to deliver possession of the same.
section 121a of the act and s 115 of the code we have no hesitation in our mind to hold that the revisional power exercised by the high court under section 121a of the act is wider than the one exercised by the high court in its revisional jurisdiction u s 115 of the code.
the land tribunal after remand relying on the entries in the rtc record and some other materials on record granted occupancy rights in favour of the appellants.
it was alleged by the respondent no 4 that since the respondent no 3 was a film actor and had settled in madras now chennaiwith the consent of the respondent no 3the scheduled land was given to the father of the appellants and the father of the appellants was cultivating the same from the year 1968 but not as a tenant.
they alleged that they were cultivating the scheduled land from 1968 till the notified date under the act on wara basis giving 13rd of the share in the foodgrains to respondent no 4 accordingly the appellants prayed for an order of occupancy right in respect of the scheduled land alleging that they and their father were cultivating the scheduled land as occupancy.
initially the land tribunal allowed the application of the father of the appellants and feeling aggrieved a writ petition was filed against the said order.
from a plain reading of section 121a of the act under which revisional jurisdiction can be exercised it would be clear that the high court while exercising such power is entitled to re appreciate the evidence when it finds that the conclusion arrived at by the appellate authority runs contrary to the materials on record and when it finds that there is no evidence to support the conclusion of the appellate authority or when it finds that the reasons given by the appellate authority are absolutely perverse and can not be supported by the evidence on record.
in our view on a careful examination of the findings of the high court which were based on consideration of the material evidence on record it is difficult for us to hold that the high court was not justified in setting aside the concurrent findings of fact of the tribunals below in the exercise of its jurisdiction under section 121a of the act.
in our view although the high court had set aside the concurrent findings of fact arrived at by the tribunals below under the karnataka land reforms.
s 4 of the act makes it clear that a member of the owner 's family can not be considered as a deemed tenant even if he is lawfully cultivating the land belonging to owner.
lastly in our view in view of the discussion made herein above the decision relied on by the learned counsel for the appellant in the case of dahya lal ors vs.
it would also be clear from a plain reading of section 121a of the act that the high court is also entitled to interfere with the orders of the tribunals below when the material evidence on record was ignored or a finding was such that no court would come to such conclusion or that the decision of the tribunals below was manifestly unjust.
accordingly they prayed for rejection of the application filed by the father of the appellants claiming occupancy rights under the act.
on the other hand in our view under section 121a of the act it would be open to the high court to interfere with the orders of the tribunals below as the high court is empowered to look into the legality of the order or regularity of the proceedings although in the exercise of revisional jurisdiction u s 115 of the code the high court is not entitled to look into the legality of the order or the regularity of the proceedings but only entitled to interfere with the orders of the tribunals or the courts below when it finds that they have a exercised a jurisdiction not vested in them by law or b failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested or c acted in the exercise of their jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity.
so the only question which arises for consideration is whether the said cultivation of the land in dispute by the father of the respondents 3 and 4 during the years 1968 to 1974 can be presumed to be that of a tenant under the provisions of s 4 of the karnataka land reforms act.
we have carefully examined the provisions under section 121a of the act which is the revisional power under the act and also the provisions u s 115 of the code of civil procedure for short the code so far as s 115 of the code is concerned it has been made clear that it is only in case of a jurisdictional error or when the courts below had acted with material irregularity in the exercise of their jurisdiction that the question of interfering with such an order can arise otherwise the high court is not entitled to interfere with any other order which does not satisfy the conditions laid down for interference u s 115 of the code.
in our view we have already held that the high court was entitled to interfere with the concurrent orders of the tribunals below as material evidence on record was not considered at all and non consideration of the material evidence on record is a question of law and therefore the high court was entitled to interfere.
while doing so in our view the high court was justified in coming to the conclusion that the evidence and material on record would clearly establish that the appellants were not able to prove that they were the tenants in respect of the scheduled land under the respondents.
keeping the aforesaid principles in mind as to when the high court would be justified in the exercise of its power under section 121a of the act to examine the legality of the orders of the tribunals below in an appropriate case let us now examine the findings of the high court while setting aside the concurrent findings of fact of the tribunals below.