in virsa singh v state of punjab4.
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in state of u p v krishna gopal 1988 4 scc 302 1988 indlaw sc 76 anwar v state of haryana 1997 9 scc 766 1997 indlaw sc 2447 ravi kumar v state of punjab 2005 9 scc 315 2005 indlaw sc 170 munivel v state of t n 2006 9 scc 394 2006 indlaw sc 118.
under clause thirdly of section 300 ipc culpable homicide is murder if both the following conditions are satisfied i e a that the act which causes death is done with the intention of causing death or is done with the intention of causing a bodily injury and b that the injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
only the intention of causing the bodily injury coupled with the offender 's knowledge of the likelihood of such injury causing the death of the particular victim is sufficient to bring the killing within the ambit of this clause.
for cases to fall within clause 3 it is not necessary that the offender intended to cause death so long as the death ensues from the intentional bodily injury or injuries sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
the mental element in culpable homicide i e mental attitude towards the consequences of conduct is one of intention and knowledge.
obviously the distinction lies between a bodily injury likely to cause death and a bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
thus according to the rule laid down in virsa singh case4 even if the intention of the accused was limited to the infliction of a bodily injury sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature and did not extend to the intention of causing death the offence would be murder.
to put it shortly the prosecution must prove the following facts before it can bring a case under section 300 thirdly first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved these are purely objective investigations.
rajwant singh v state of kerala is an apt illustration of this point.
it is trite law that section 304 part ii comes into play when the death is caused by doing an act with knowledge that it is likely to cause death but there is no intention on the part of the accused either to cause death or to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause death.
the words bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death mean that death will be the most probable result of the injury having regard to the ordinary course of nature.
if the assailant had no such knowledge about the disease or special frailty of the victim nor an intention to cause death or bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death the offence will not be murder even if the injury which caused the death was intentionally given.
it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury which in the ordinary course of nature was sufficient to cause death viz that the injury found to be present was the injury that was intended to be inflicted.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
if he can show that he did not or if the totality of the circumstances justify such an inference then of course the intent that the section requires is not proved.
the first is what may be called culpable homicide of the first degree.
in cl 3 of section 300 instead of the words likely to cause death occurring in the corresponding cl.
accordingly we convict the appellant under section 304 part ii of ipc and sentence him to undergo imprisonment for a period of 7 years.
if that is caused in any of the aforesaid three circumstances the offence of culpable homicide is said to have been committed.
thirdly it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury that is to say that it was not accidental or unintentional or that some other kind of injury was intended.
4 of section 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the act causing death.
such knowledge on the part of the offender must be of the highest degree of probability the act having been committed by the offender without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.
the present appeal arises out of the judgment and order dated 01 07 2002 passed by the high court of bombay at goa in criminal appeal No 6 of 2000 convicting the accused appellant section 302 of the indian penal code for short the the ipc and sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment for the offence by setting aside the order of acquittal passed by the trial court.
i and if it is only a case of knowledge and not the intention to cause murder and bodily injury then the same would be a case of section 304 part ii.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
to put it more broadly it is the degree of probability of death which determines whether a culpable homicide is of the gravest medium or the lowest degree.
reference in this regard may be made to the decision of this court in ruli ram v state of haryana 2002 7 scc 691 2002 indlaw sc 1927 augustine saldanha v state of karnataka 2003 10 scc 472 2003 indlaw sc 674 state of u p v virendra prasad 2004 9 scc 37 2004 indlaw sc 60 chacko v state of kerala 2004 12 scc 269 2004 indlaw sc 20 section n bhadolkar v state of maharasthra 2005 9 scc 71 2004 indlaw sc 268 and jagriti devi v state of h p jt 2009 8 sc 648.
section 299 defines culpable homicide as the act of causing death i with the intention of causing death or ii with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death or iii with the knowledge that such act is likely to cause death.
speaking generally culpable homicide sans special characteristics of murder is culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
the question so far as the intention is concerned is not whether he intended to kill or to inflict an injury of a particular degree of seriousness but whether he intended to inflict the injury in question and once the existence of the injury is proved the intention to cause it will be presumed unless the evidence or the circumstances warrant an opposite conclusion.
in the scheme of the penal code culpable homicides is genus and murder its specie.
this is the greatest form of culpable homicide which is defined in section 300 as murder.
both the expression intent and knowledge postulate the existence of a positive mental attitude which is of different degrees.
the bare reading of the section makes it crystal clear that the first and the second clause of the section refer to intention apart from the knowledge and the third clause refers to knowledge alone and not intention.
no doubt section 5 a of the prevention of corruption act was enacted for preventing harassment to a government servant and with this object in view investigation except with the previous permission of a magistrate is not permitted to be made by an officer below the rank of deputy superintendent of police.
the second may be termed as culpable homicide of the second degree.
4 of section 300 would be applicable where the knowledge of the offender as to the probability of death of a person or persons in general as distinguished from a particular person or persons being caused from his imminently dangerous act approximates to a practical certainty.
section 300 ipc further provides for the exceptions which will constitute culpable homicide not amounting to murder and punishable section when and if there is intent and knowledge then the same would be a case of section 304.
it is noteworthy that the intention to cause death is not an essential requirement of cl.
the above are only broad guidelines and not cast iron imperatives.
in the case of state of a p v rayavarapu punnayya 1976 4 scc 382 1976 indlaw sc 192 this court observed as follows at page 386 12.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
instances of cases falling u cl 2 of section 300 can be where the assailant causes death by a fist blow intentionally given knowing that the victim is suffering from an enlarged liver or enlarged spleen or diseased heart and such blow is likely to cause death of that particular person as a result of the rupture of the liver or spleen or the failure of the heart as the case may be.
culpable homicide of this degree is punishable under the second part of section 304.
once these three elements are proved to be present the enquiry proceeds further and fourthly it must be proved that the injury of the type just described made up of the three elements set out above is sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
b of section 299 conveys the sense of probable as distinguished from a mere possibility.
c of section 299 and cl.
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
but if there is nothing beyond the injury and the fact that the appellant inflicted it the only possible inference is that he intended to inflict it.
b of section 299 does not postulate any such knowledge on the part of the offender.
this court has observed as follows in the case of dinesh kumar v state of rajasthan 2008 8 scc 270 2008 indlaw sc 2034 11.
the word likely in cl.
this part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferential and has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.
duty of the state to protect the life of an injured as also an endeavour on the part of the responsible police officer to reach the place of occurrence in a situation of this nature is his implicit duty and responsibility.
2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the ipc.
that being the factual position we are of the considered view that the present case can not be said to be a case section but it is a case falling under section 304 part ii ipc.
b of section 299 the words sufficient in the ordinary course of nature have been used.
placing strong reliance on the aforesaid decision this court in the case of abdul waheed khan v state of a p 2002 7 scc 175 2002 indlaw sc 1777 observed as follows at page 184 13.
the aforesaid distinction between an act amounting to murder and an act not amounting to murder has been brought out in the numerous decisions of this court.
it is not necessary for the purpose of this case to dilate much on the distinction between these corresponding clauses.
in that view of the matter it can not be said that the fir was in any manner hit by the provisions of section 162 of crpc.
once these three elements are proved to be present the enquiry proceeds further and fourthly it must be proved that the injury of the type just described made up of the three elements set out above was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
the distinguishing feature of the mens rea requisite u cl 2 is the knowledge possessed by the offender regarding the particular victim being in such a peculiar condition or state of health that the internal harm caused to him is likely to be fatal notwithstanding the fact that such harm would not in the ordinary way of nature be sufficient to cause death of a person in normal health or condition.
then there is culpable homicide of the third degree.
but the main object of investigation being to bring home the offence to the offender the essential part of the duties of an investigating officer in this connection is apart from arresting the offender to collect all material necessary for establishing the accusation against the offender.
first it must establish quite objectively that a bodily injury is present secondly the nature of the injury must be proved.
it has been repeatedly held by this court that culpable homicide is the genus and murder is species and that all murders are culpable homicide but not vice versa.
there is cogent and reliable evidence on record to prove and establish that the accused has committed the act of stabbing as a result of which the deceased had died.
these observations of vivian bose j have become locus classicus.
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
this is the lowest type of culpable homicide and the punishment provided for it is also the lowest among the punishments provided for the three grades.
so long the defence is not able to establish from the records by cogent evidence that there was any delay in sending the fir to the magistrate it can not be held that there was any such delay.
it will be sufficient to say that cl.
in most cases their observance will facilitate the task of the court.
illustration c appended to section 300 clearly brings out this point.
this is punishable under the first part of section 304.
the distinction is fine but real and if overlooked may result in miscarriage of justice.
there is therefore provocation and the incident happened at the spur of the moment.
section 299 and section 300 ipc deals with the definition of culpable homicide and murder respectively.
the test laid down by virsa singh case4 for the applicability of clause thirdly is now ingrained in our legal system and has become part of the rule of law.