this appeal is directed against the judgment and order of the high court of gujarat dated 28 2 1986 allowing the respondent s writ petition and quashing order of discharge from service and directing his reinstatement in service.
the respondent joined service as technical assistant with the gujarat state electricity board hereinafter refined to as the board he was promoted to the post of deputy engineer.
while he was posted at surat as deputy engineer he was transferred to ukai subdivision under the order of the superintending engineer dated 29th march1974 pursuant to the order of transfer he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974 to enable him to join at ukai.
his representation was rejected and he was directed to join at ukai but he did not do so instead he filed a civil suit at baroda challenging validity of the order of transfer.
meanwhile the chief engineer by his order dated 27th may1974 discharged the respondent from service with effect from 31st march1974 in accordance with service regulation no 113 the respondent challenged the validity of the order of his discharge from service by means of a writ petition under article 226 of the constitution before the high court of gujarat.
a learned single judge of the high court quashed the order of termination on the findings that the order of discharge was issued m violation of the basic principles of natural justice as no opportunity was afforded to the respondent before discharging him from services under regulation no 113.
the learned single judge granted a declaration in respondent s favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back wages.
the respondent as well as the appellant board both preferred letters patent appeals against the order of learned single judge.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants but it allowed the respondent s appeal.
the division bench upheld the order of the learned single judge holding the order of discharge illegal and void but it set aside the order of the learned single judge refusing to grant consequential relief instead it directed the appellants to reinstate the respondent and to treat him in service without any break in service and to grant him benefits of increments seniority and promotion to which he may be entitled under the rules.
this appeal came up for hearing before us on 28th january1988 and on that day.
we expressed our view in the court and suggested to mr vimal dave counsel for the respondent that if he agreed the original writ petition of the respondent could be dismissed without directing him to refund the amount which he had already been paid by the appellants in pursuance to the orders of the high court and of this court as during the pendency of the appeal.
the hearing was adjourned to enable sh.
no government servant or employee of public undertaking has legal tight for being posted at any particular place.
transfer from one place to other is generally a condition of service and the employee has no choice in the matter.
the above rule provides that if an employee of the gujarat electricity board continues to remain absent from duty or overstays the period of sanctioned leave and in spite of warning he fails to return to duty he renders himself liable to be discharged summarily from service without complying with the procedure prescribed for taking disciplinary action under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
regulation 113 confers wide powers on the authorities to summarily discharge an employee from service if he continues to be absent from duty in an unauthorised manner and refuses to join his duty even after warning.
the object and purpose of giving warning is to remind the delinquent employee that if he continues to be absent from duty he would be liable to action under regulation 113 and to afford him an opportunity to make amends by joining his duty.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
on march 291974 the superintending engineer of the board issued the order transferring the respondent from surat to ukai on 30 3 1974 the respondent was relieved from surat and directed to join his duty at ukai but the respondent did not join his duty at the new place of posting.
the transfer order was not stayed and as the respondent did not join his duties he continued to be absent without sanction of any leave.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
sub transfer from surat to ukai.
there is no dispute that the respondent received the aforesaid letter as he sent a reply to the superintending engineer on april 201974a copy of which was annexed as annexure j by the petitioner to his petition before the high court.
since the respondent continued to be absent from duty the superintending engineer by a registered post acknowledgment due letter dated april 241974 informed the respondent that his request to postpone his transfer was rejected and he was directed to join his duty at ukai and on his failure to do so disciplinary action would be taken against him.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
ultimately the chief engineer of the board took action against the respondent and discharged him from service with effect from 31 3 1974 by his letter dated may 271974.
the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the officers of the board and the respondent clearly show that the respondent disobeyed the order of transfer and he remained absent from duty in an unauthorised manner without obtaining sanction of leave.
the aforesaid documents leave no room for any doubt that the respondent was reminded of his failure to join his duties at ukai and he was further reminded that his unauthorised absence had exposed him to disciplinary action.
the division bench of the high court has held that since no warning was issued to the respondent action taken under service regulation no 113 was not in accordance with law.
the object and purpose of the warning as contemplated by the regulation is to remind the delinquent employee that his continued unauthorised absence from duties was liable to result in discharge of his service.
the respondent has been paid a sum of rs 104170 towards salary under the interim orders of this court.
appeal allowed.
