these appeals are directed against a judgment and order dated 17 october 2003 passed by the special court constituted under the special courts trial of offences relating to transactions in securities.
the appellants herein who are related to one harshad section mehta since deceased purchased nine residential flats in a building called madhuli apartments in worli area of mumbai.
late harshad mehta were persons notified in terms of the act which was enacted to provide for the establishment of a special court for the trial of offences relating to transactions in securities and for matters connected therewith.
in terms of the provisions of the act along with late harshad mehta the custodian had notified 29 entities in terms of section 3 of the act comprising three of his younger brothers wife of late harshad mehta wives of two of his younger brothers and other corporate entities a partnership firm and three hufs.
however out of the said 29 entitles only late harshad mehta and two of his younger brothers were cited as accused in various criminal cases filed against them.
the properties of late harshad mehta and the appellants herein being notified persons stood attached in terms of the provisions of the act.
it is not in dispute that the learned special court on or about 3 august 1993 issued directions in various proceedings before it appointing auditors to prepare and audit the books of accounts of all notified persons for the period 1 april 1990 and 8 june 1992 i e the date of the notification.
a chartered accountants firm was appointed by the learned special judge by an order dated 17 september 2003 to represent all notified entities in the family of late harshad mehta for the purpose of ascertaining their tax liabilities.
we may at this juncture notice the nature of the applications filed by the parties herein before the learned special court i on 26 april 1999 the custodian filed an application being misc.
the misc.
it was directed in case all adult members of the family of late shri harshad metha who are presently occupying the abovereferred flats file an undertaking in this court within a period of four weeks from today undertaking to vacate the flat occupied by them and hand over peaceful possession thereof to the custodian within a period of four weeks from the date on which the custodian sends them communication asking them to vacate the flats on sale of the flats being sanctioned by the court.
ii having regard to the fact that only three entitles out of eight were involved in the offences the liability of harshad mehta could not have been clubbed for the purpose of directing attachment and consequent sale of the properties which exclusively belong to them.
vi drawing our attention to a representative chart showing the discrepancies in the accounts of mrs deepika a mehta as shown in a affidavit by the custodian b books of accounts maintained by the appellants and c auditor s report it was submitted that the auditor s report could not have been relied upon.
mr ashok h desai learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the custodian on the other hand would inter alia submit.
iin view of the decision of this court in l s synthetics ltd v fairgrowth financial services ltd and another 2004 11 scc 456 2004 indlaw sc 715 all properties belonging to the notified persons being subject to automatic attachment could be applied for discharge of the joint liabilities of the harshad mehta group in terms of section 11 of the act.
iiithe order of assessment under the income tax act having become final and binding as on the date when the orders of assessment were passed and thus mere filing of appeals were not sufficient for raising a contention that the taxes did not become due.
ivthe appellants herein apart from the corporate entity which is a front company of late harshad mehta have received large loans advances and credits from the harshad mehta group and there had been intermingling of the assets to the tune of crores of rupees they can not escape their liabilities under the act.
vithe decretal amount against the harshad mehta group also would exceed rs 4339 crores and thus the assets held by the appellants are wholly insufficient to meet the liabilities.
hitesh mehta and dr pratima mehta who are medical practitioners by profession having affirmed affidavits admitting that the share broking and investment businesses which were part of family businesses were undertaken and conducted by late harshad mehta and they had no knowledge thereabout nor were they involved therewith.
a large number of commercial properties having already been sold and third party rights having been created this court should not interfere with the impugned judgment.
the act.
the right of a person notified to file an application or to raise a defence that he is not liable in terms of the provisions of the act or in any event the properties attached should not be sold in discharge of the liabilities can be taken at the initial stage by filing an application in terms of sub s 2 of section 4 of the act.
does the special court have any discretion relating to the extent of payments to be made under section 112a from out of the attached funds property.
whether the special court has the power to absolve a notified person from payment of penalty or interest for a period subsequent to the date of his notification section in the alternative is a notified person liable to payment of penalty or interest arising from his inability to pay taxes after his notification.
such tax liability may be discharged either under the directions of the special court under section 112c or the taxing authority may recover the same from any subsequently acquired property of a notified person vide tejkumar balakrishna ruia v a k menon 1996 indlaw sc 2403 or in any other manner from the notified person in accordance with law.
in respect of the question No 3 it was opined that the date of distribution arrives when the special court completes the examination of claims under section 9 a and if on that date any tax liability for the statutory period is legally assessed and the assessment is final and binding on a notified person that liability would be considered for payment section 111a.
iiwhether individual liabilities of the appellants ought to have been separately considered by the special court as not a part of harshad mehta group.
in our opinion the learned judge special court should have analysed the respective contentions of the parties in greater details and in particular in regard to assets and liabilities of the separate entities and having regard to the contentions raised by them that they are not part of the harshad mehta group and their individual liabilities can be met from the assets held and possessed by them separately.
tax liability.
