the state of manipur is in appeal before us questioning the judgment and order dated 29 07 2005 passed by a division bench of the guwahati high court in wa nos 61787995 and 100 of 1999 upholding a judgment and order of a learned single judge of the said court dated 19 02 1999 in c r nos 32410125681022 and 1023 of 1998.
one shri a j tayeng was the revenue commissioner of government of manipur.
the state of manipur had not framed any recruitment rules for appointment inter alia in the revenue department and in particular the field staff thereof.
the commissioner of revenue department was conferred with a power of being the cadre controlling authority for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
he was also to be the chairman of the departmental promotion committee for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
the commissioner allegedly made certain appointments in the posts of mandols process servers and zilladars which was not within the knowledge of the state.
the said appointments were made on temporary basis.
appointments were made on 11 09 199722 11 1997 and 5 12 1997 a sample copy of the offer of appointment reads as under no 11497 com rev on the recommendation of d p c and under the directives issued by the honourable gauhati high court the following persons are hereby appointed as mandols on temporary basis in the scale of pay of rs 950 20 1150 eb 25 1400 per month with usual allowances against thereto existing clear vacancies of mandals under revenue department from the date of their joining on duties.
2 further they are posted at the places indicate against their names 3 the expenditure is debitable under appropriate heads of accounts of the departments offices concerned.
no record in regard to the said recruitments was maintained.
an inquiry was therefore made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
shri tayeng by a uo note dated 12 01 1998 denied to have made such an appointment stating confidential u o no 21593 com r pt.
with reference to the u o letter no 21593 comr pt.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
etc of.
the honourable minister revenuei am to say that i am not all aware of such appointments made by me except for 3 lambus who were kept in panel for appointment and accordingly the s o revenue.
shri robert shaiza was instructed to take care.
i therefore deny making of such appointments.
on the other hand md.
a r khan secretary revenue has made many appointments of mandols process servers zilladars in the recent months against which i have been complaining that the secretary revenue has no power or authority to make any appointments of field staff as per rules provided under m l r act1960 in this regard i have apprised the matter to the honourable minister revenue already and also informed the chief secretary manipur explaining that the secretary revenue can not make such appointments of field staffs even if he wanted to do so all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the honourable minister revenue his action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
he has been making false and wrong allegations against the commissioner revenue and putting him false position.
it is for this reason i have been writing to all the deputy commissioners in the districts even by sending w t messages clarifying the actual position of making any appointment of revenue field staff.
i still deny that i have made any appointment of field staffs of revenue department during the recent months.
submitted for information and consideration.
sd 12198 annayok j tayeng.
commissioner revenue.
govt of manipur minister revenue.
in view of the aforementioned stand taken by the said shri tayeng the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents were cancelled by an order dated 17 02 1998 a corrigendum thereto was however issued on 21 02 1998 stating no 21593 comrev.
temp i please read as august97 in place of october97 occurring in the 4th line of this government order no 21593 comrev.
temp i dated 17 2 1998.
in civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005the respondents were appointed on ad hoc basis for a period of six months.
their appointments were also cancelled on similar grounds.
the respondents herein filed writ petitions before the high court on 4 06 1998 questioning the said order of cancellation of their appointments.
the said shri tayeng retired on 28 02 1998 despite the fact that he in his uo note dated 12 02 1998 addressed to the minister of revenue denied to have made any appointment when approached by the writ petitioners respondents he affirmed in their support an affidavit in the high court stating 3 that while i was functioning as revenue commissioner manipur matters relating to appointment on the recommendation of the d p c transfer etc were put up to me in files and i used to pass order on the basis of facts presented to me in file.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
after my retirement from service i have no access to such files.
as stated above i was transferred and posted to the manipur electronics development corporation during 1997.
4 that after my retirement some of the writ petitioners civil rule no 568 of 1998came to me and show copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit of the respondent no 12 and 3 i have gone through the copy of the writ petition and the counter affidavit and annexures thereto.
the xerox copy of the cyclostyled appointment order bearing no 11497.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
dated 11 9 97 annexure a2 to the writ petition appointing 4 persons to the post of mandol are perused by me minutely.
i submit that these appointment orders annexures a1 and a2 bear my signature initial and appear to have been issued under my signature.
it appears that the appointment orders were issued after complying the formalities prescribed there for which can be ascertained from the relevant official file.
since i have retired from service i have no access to the file and do not know what might have been in the file and where is the file.
the writ petitions filed by the respondents herein were allowed by a learned single judge of the high court opining i the principles of natural justice having not been complied with the impugned orders can not be sustained.
however it was observed however it is further made clear that the state respondent are at liberty to initiate or take up any appropriate legal action in the matter pertaining to their alleged fake appointments in their respective posts in accordance with law and pass necessary order after affording reasonable opportunity of being heard to them.
so far as the matter relating to civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005 is concerned it was directed that as the appointment of the respondents were made for a period of six months the employees were only entitled to the salary for the said period.
mr jaideep gupta learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants would submit that the high court went wrong in passing the impugned judgment insofar as it failed to take into consideration that in a case of this nature it was not necessary to comply with the principles of natural justice.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on kendriya vidyalaya sangathan and others v ajay kumar das and others 2002 4 scc 503 2002 indlaw sc 287.
it was argued that the question as to whether appointments were made without the knowledge of the department or for that matter whether any record was available there for was of not much significance as in effect and substance they lead to the same inference and in that view of the matter the decision of this court in mohinder singh gill 1977 indlaw sc 53 supra was not attracted.
s b sanyal learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would submit that the question as to whether the appointments of the respondents were nullities or not having not been raised before the high court this court should not permit the appellants to raise the said contention at this stage.
the learned counsel would submit that even in a case of this nature it was incumbent upon the appellants to comply with the principles of natural justice.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on parshotam lal dhingra v union of india.
air 1958 sc 36 1957 indlaw sc 103murugayya udayar and another.
v kothampatti muniyandavar temple by trustee pappathi ammal.
1991 supp 1 scc 331 1991 indlaw sc 904 and kumari shrilekha vidyarthi and others v state of u p and others 1991 1 scc 212 1990 indlaw sc 463.
the state while offering appointments having regard to the constitutional scheme adumbrated in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india must comply with its constitutional duty subject to just and proper exceptions to give an opportunity of being considered for appointment to all persons eligible there for.
the posts of field staffs of the revenue department of the state of manipur were thus required to be filled up having regard to the said constitutional scheme.
we would proceed on the assumption that the state had not framed any recruitment rules in terms of the proviso appended to art 309 of the constitution of india but the same by itself would not clothe the commissioner of revenue to make recruitments in violation of the provisions contained in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents herein were cancelled inter alia on the premise that the same had been done without the knowledge of the revenue department of the state.
no records there for were available with the state.
as noticed hereinbefore an inquiry had been made wherein the said shri tayeng the then commissioner of revenue stated that no such appointment had been made to his knowledge.
the offers of appointment were cancelled not on the ground that some irregularities had been committed in the process of recruitment but on the ground that they had been non est in the eye of law.
the purported appointment letters were fake ones.
they were not issued by any authority competent therefor.
if the offers of appointments issued in favour of the respondents herein were forged documents the state could not have been compelled to pay salaries to them from the state exchequer.
any action which had not been taken by an authority competent therefor and in complete violation of the constitutional and legal framework would not be binding on the state.
moreover it was for the respondents who had filed the writ petitions to prove existence of legal right in their favour.
it was thus for them to establish existence of a legal right in their favour and a corresponding legal duty in the respondents to continue to be employed.
with a view to establish their legal rights to enable the high court to issue a writ of mandamus the respondents were obligated to establish that the appointments had been made upon following the constitutional mandate adumbrated in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
the respondents had not been validly appointed and in that view of the matter the question of their case being considered for promotion and or recruitment by the dpc did not and could not arise.
it is true that where appointments had been made by a competent authority or at least some steps have been taken in that behalf the principles of natural justice are required to be complied with in view of the decision of this court in murugayya udayar 1991 indlaw sc 904 supra.
we as noticed hereinbefore do not know as to under what circumstances the orders of appointments were issued.
in kumari shrilekha vidyarthi 1990 indlaw sc 463 suprathis court was dealing with a question in regard to continuance of the law officers.
the question which arose herein was not raised.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
their appointment is in the first instance for one year.
the latter are not appointed as a part of the spoils system.
in parshotam lal dhingra 1957 indlaw sc 103.
we may however point out that even in cases where the facts are not all admitted or beyond dispute there is a considerable unanimity that the courts can in exercise of their discretion refuse certiorari prohibition mandamus or injunction even though natural justice is not followed.
in kendriya vidyalaya sangathan 2002 indlaw sc 287 suprait was held it is clear that if after the termination of services of the said dr k c rakesh the orders of appointment are issued such orders are not valid.
