this appeal is directed against the final judgment and order dated 03 10 2007 passed by the high court of judicature andhra pradesh at hyderabad in criminal appeal no 436 of 2001 whereby the high court dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant herein and confirmed the judgment dated 19 03 2001 passed by the special judge c b i cases visakhapatnam in c c no 2 of 1998.
brief facts a the appellant accused was working as a head clerk in the traffic cadre section in the office of the senior divisional personnel officer south central railway vijayawada during the period from april1992 to november1997 the nature of duties of the appellant accused included dealing with and processing of the matters like promotions transfers seniority list roster list pay fixation on promotions retirements resignations etc of the personnel.
one k rama rao the complainant who was examined as pw 1was posted as yard points man grade a under station superintendent south central railway tanuku from december1995 to june1997 in june1997due to excess staff at tanuku.
thereafter pw 1 made a representation to his senior officer requesting him for posting at vijayawada cheerala vetapalam or tenali.
later pw 1 was transferred to vijayawada.
on the same daypw 1 reported the matter in writing to the inspector of police central bureau of investigation in short the cbivijayawada.
the special judge cbi by order dated 19 03 2001convicted the appellant and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u s 7 of the act and one year rigorous imprisonment with a fine of rs 500 and in default to suffer simple imprisonment for one month for the offence punishable u ss 131d ii.
g against the said order the appellant accused filed criminal appeal no 436 of 2001 before the high court of andhra pradesh.
the high court by impugned judgment dated 03 10 2007 dismissed the appeal filed by the appellant accused and confirmed the conviction passed by the trial court.
heard mr atm rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant and mr harish chandra learned senior counsel for the respondent.
on 28 01 2008this court consisting of three honourable judges issued notice in this matter confining to the quantum of sentence only.
as stated in the narration of facts the appellant was convicted u s 7 of the act for which he was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months and to pay a fine of rs 500 in default simple imprisonment for one month.
the trial court ordered that both the sentences of imprisonment shall run concurrently.
however mr rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant by drawing our attention to the recent judgment of this court in yomeshbhai pranshankar bhatt vs state of gujarat2011 6 scc 312 2011 indlaw sc 370submitted that in spite of limited notice this court while exercising jurisdiction u art 142 of the constitution in order to do complete justice while hearing the matter finally can go into the merits of the orders passed by the trial court and the high court.
in the reported case the appeal was against the concurrent finding of both the courts convicting the appellant u s 302 ipc and sentencing him to suffer imprisonment for life.
this court referred to the supreme court rules1966 which have been framed u art 145 of the constitution and also considered scope of its power u art 142 as well as order 47.
rule 6 of the code of civil procedure1908.
it further shows that the court considered the plea of the appellant therein for acquittal despite the fact that the notice was limited in terms of the order dated 27 07 2009 it is relevant to point out that the bench in para 18clarified the position and reopened the case in its entirety even though notice was issued confining to a particular aspect.
the question whether the court will enlarge the scope of its inquiry at the time of final hearing depends on the facts and circumstances of the case.
emphasis supplied.
the high court as an appellate court once again analysed all the material discussed the oral and documentary evidence and finding that the prosecution had proved the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt concurred with the conclusion arrived at by the trial court and dismissed the appeal of the appellant.
inasmuch as both the courts have thoroughly discussed the oral and documentary evidence with reference to the charges leveled against the appellant and in view of the limited order dated 28 01 2008 by this court issuing notice confining to quantum of sentence only and even applying the analogy enunciated in yomeshbhai 2011 indlaw sc 370 suprawe feel that it is not a case of such nature that the appellant should be heard on all points consequently we reject the request of the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant.
quantum of sentence.
mr rangaramanujam learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that inasmuch as the alleged incident took place on 14 11 1997 and 14 years have elapsed since then the amount of rs 200 said to have been received by the appellant is trivial in nature and also of the fact that due to the said conviction and sentence he lost his job leniency may be shown and sentence be reduced to the period already undergone.
he fairly admitted that out of the maximum period of one year the appellant had served only 52 days in prison.
it is not in dispute that the provisions of the prevention of corruption act1988 alone are applicable since the incident occurred on 14 11 1997 i e subsequent to the act.
s 7 of the act relates to public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act.
the said section reads as under public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act  whoever being or expecting to be a public servant accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other person any gratification whatever other than legal remuneration as a motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any official act or for showing or forbearing to show in the exercise of his official functions favour or disfavor to any person or for rendering or attempting to render any service or disservice to any person with the central government or any state government or parliament or the legislature of any state or with any local authority corporation or government company referred to in cl c of section 2or with any public servant whether named or otherwise shall be punishable with imprisonment which shall be not less than six months but which may extend to five years and shall also be liable to fine emphasis supplied.
s 13 deals with criminal misconduct by a public servant.
for clarity we reproduce the said section hereunder criminal misconduct by a public servant  1.
a public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct a if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other person any gratification other than legal remuneration as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in section 7 or b if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain for himself or for any other person any valuable thing without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate from any person whom he knows to have been or to be or to be likely to he concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or about to be transacted by him or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to whom he is subordinate or from any person whom he knows to be interests in or related to the person so concerned or c if he dishonestly or fraudulently misappropriates or otherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted to him or under his control as a public servant or allows any other person so to do or d if he i by corrupt or illegal means obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage or ii by abusing his position as a public servant obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage or iii.
while holding office as a public servant obtains for any person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public interest or e if he or any person on his behalf is in possession or has at any time during the period of his office been in possession for which the public servant can not satisfactorily account of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to his known sources of income.
such relaxation in the form of a proviso has been done away with in the 1988 act.
in order to substantiate the claim with the regard to the above learned senior counsel for the appellant has relied on the decision of this court in bechaarbhai s prajapati vs state of gujarat2008 11 scc 163 2008 indlaw sc 297 and based on the same requested this court to modify the sentence to the extent of period already undergone.
finally the special judge framed charges for offence punishable under sections 712131d read with s 132 of the act.
the appellant therein was convicted for offence u s 72 of the act and appeal before the high court was also dismissed.
in that case taking note of the fact that the occurrence took place nearly seven years back and also of the fact that the appellant had suffered custody for more than six months considering all these aspects while maintaining the conviction this court reduced the sentence to the period already undergone.
pc the minimum sentence being six months and of the fact that he had suffered custody for more than six months the course adopted by this court is perfectly in order and the same can not be applied to the case on hand wherein the appellant had undergone only 52 days when the minimum sentence was six months u s 7 and one year u s 13.
there is no dispute as regards the date of occurrence and the date of conviction passed by the trial court and affirmed by the high court.
inasmuch as the conviction on both counts have been confirmed by this court and we are confined to sentence part alone and in view of the minimum sentence prescribed u ss 7 and 13 of the act we are of the view that though long delay may be a ground for reduction of sentence in other cases the same may not be applicable to the case on hand when the statute prescribes minimum sentence.
it was further contended that the amount alleged to have been received by the appellant accused is only rs 200 and he also lost his job after conviction by the trial court.
though these grounds may be attractive in respect of other offences where minimum sentence is not prescribed in view of our reasonings in the earlier paras the same can not be applied to the case on hand.
indlaw sc 716 wherein it was held that it is difficult to accept the prayer of the respondent that a lenient view be taken in this case.
as has been aptly observed in swatantar singh v state of haryana1997 4 scc 14 1997 indlaw sc 1061corruption is corroding like cancerous lymph nodes the vital veins of the body politics social fabric of efficiency in the public service and demoralising the honest officers.
art 142 and its applicability.
by drawing our attention to art 142 of the constitution of india learned senior counsel for the appellant vehemently submitted that in order to do complete justice this court has ample power to reduce the sentence even to the extent of period already undergone or any other order which would be beneficial to the parties approaching this court.
similar claim based on art 142 has been negatived in several decisions by this court we need to refer only the latest decision of this court in manish goel vs rohini goel2010 4 scc 393 2010 indlaw sc 301 the facts in that case are that the parties by persuasion of the family members and friends entered into a compromise and prepared a memorandum of understanding dated 13 11 2009in the proceedings pending before the mediation centre delhi by which they agreed on terms and conditions incorporated therein to settle all their disputes and also for dissolution of their marriage.
the parties filed an application under section 13 b1 of the hindu marriage act1955 before the family court delhi seeking divorce by mutual consent.
however the court rejected the said application vide order dated 01 12 2009 observing that the court was not competent to waive the required statutory period of six months under the act and such a waiver was permissible only under the directions of the supreme court as held by this court in anil kumar jain vs maya jain2009.
10 scc 415 2009 indlaw sc 1494 hence the parties have approached this court for appropriate relief.
ghosh v kajal kumar ghosh 2007 2 scc 220 2006 indlaw sc 775rishikesh sharma v saroj sharma 2007 2 scc 263 2006 indlaw sc 994samar ghosh v jaya ghosh 2007 4 scc 511 2007 indlaw sc 1000 and satish sitole.
emphasis supplied.
