aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
the biscuits were sold under the brand name meghraj.
under show cause notices it was alleged that the appellants herein assessee have sold the biscuits under the brand name meghrajwhich was a registered trade mark of kay aar biscuits p ltd who was using the said trade mark on manufacture of biscuits themselves and therefore the appellants were not eligible to the benefit of ssi notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 1993 as amended by notification no 5994 ce dated 1 3 1994.
it was declared that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
he came to the conclusion vide his orders that the trade name meghraj was in the form of a logo printed on the wrapper of the biscuits and therefore the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of notification no 193 ce dated 28 2 93 as amended by notification no 5994 dated 1 3 94 consequently the adjudicating authority called upon the appellants to pay differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992.
aggrieved by the decision of the adjudicating authority the assessee preferred appeals to the commissioner a the said appeals were rejected on the ground that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj of another manufacturer m s kay aar biscuits p ltd on their products biscuits and therefore they were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
that the same was registered ssi unit that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was lying closed since 1 3 93 and therefore the appellants have been using that logo of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd who was eligible for exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
since the appellants herein had used the trade name meghraj on their products which trade name was owned by m s ltd the appellants were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
accordingly the commissioner a dismissed the appeals.
it was further pointed out that in fact the appellants had applied for ownership of the brand name meghraj vide application dated 30 9 91 to the registrar trade marks under the trade marks act and that the said application for registration was pending before the competent authority and since the above arguments were not recorded in the impugned order of the cegat dated 11 4 2000 the same warranted rectification.
by order dated 8 12 2000cegat rejected the above rectification application made by the appellants.
one more fact needs to be mentioned that on 30 6 2000 the registrar of trade marks appears to have issued registration certificate on 30 6 2000 registering the trade mark meghraj in favour of the appellants with effect form 30 9 91 it appears that issuance of this certificate was mentioned before the cegat which rejected the rectification application on 8 12 2000.
explanation ix brand name or trade name shall mean a brand name or trade name whether registered or not that is to say a name or a mark such as symbol monogram label signature or invented word or writing which is used in relation to such specified goods for the purpose of indicating or so as to indicate a connection in the course of trade between such specified goods and some person using such name or mark with or without any indication of the identity of that person.
in the present case as stated above m s kay aar biscuits p ltd entered into an agreement on 22 11 89 with m s rich food products p ltd under that agreement the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd declared that his company was the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
this aspect is important since one of the arguments advanced by the appellants herein before the commissioner a was that the trade mark belonged to m s ltd which was registered ssi unit lying closed since 1 3 1993.
on behalf of the appellants it has been vehemently argued that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was never the registered owner of the trade mark meghraj.
it was urged that merely because an agreement stood entered into on 22 11 89 between m s ltd.
the department had erred in alleging that the trade mark belonged to m s it was urged that m s ltd had never got the trade mark registered under the trade marks act.
it was urged that a mere agreement between two parties can not constitute ownership of the trade mark in favour of m s it was urged that in any event m s kay aar biscuits p ltd had stopped its production in 1993 that the company had become defunct that the appellants herein had applied to the registrar of trade marks for registration of the mark meghraj and vide registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 the registrar has recognized the appellants as owner of the trade mark with effect from 30 9 91 in the circumstances the appellants submitted that the demand for differential duty was unwarranted.
this court has held that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
these are considerations which are relevant in disputes arising out of infringement passing of actions under the trade marks act.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
elt 225 2004 indlaw sc 996scthis court held that the assessee will not be entitled to the benefit of exemption if it uses on goods in question same similar brand name with intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person or uses the name in such manner that it would indicate such connection.
however in that affidavit he has not stated as to on what basis in the agreement of 23 11 89 signed by him he had declared that m s ltd is the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
the department has rightly placed reliance on the agreement of 23 11 89 in the circumstances the burden was on the assessee appellants herein to satisfy the adjudicating authority that there was no intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person.
in the present case there is no evidence from the side of the appellants indicating abandonment of the trade mark by m s although madan verma the director of m s kay aar biscuits p ltd has filed his affidavit enclosing the registration certificate he has nowhere stated that m s ltd has abandoned the trade mark.
the burden is on the appellants particularly when the department is relying upon the agreement dated 23 11 89 between m s lastly we are required to examine the retrospective effect of the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 with effect from 30 9 91 at the outset we may reiterate that the object of the exemption notification was neither to protect the owners of the trade mark nor the consumers from being misled.
however since retrospective nature of the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 is repeatedly being raised in this court we would like to examine the case law in this regard.
u s 28 of the trade marks act1999registration gives to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the trade marks act.
it is correct to say that the registrar trade marks can issue registration certificate u s 28 of the trade marks act with retrospective effect.
this question has been decided by the bombay high court in the case of sunder parmanand lalwani and others v caltex india ltd air 1969 bombay 24 1965 indlaw mum 1419 in which it has been held vide paras 32 and 38 as follows a proprietary right in a mark can be obtained in a number of ways.
our trade marks law is based on the english trade marks law and the english acts.
the first trade marks act in england was passed in 1875 even prior thereto it was firmly established in england that a trader acquired a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade and that he was entitled to protect such right of property by appropriate proceedings by way of injunction in a court of law.
the effect of the relevant provision of the english acts was that registration of a trade mark would be deemed to be equivalent to public user of such mark.
the particular mode of acquisition of proprietorship relied upon by the applicant in this case is of his user for the first time in india in connection with watches and allied goods mentioned by him of the mark caltexwhich at the material time was a foreign mark belonging to degoumois co of switzerland and used by them in respect of watches in switzerland.
unquestionably the applicant s user was not large but that fact makes no difference because so far as this country is concerned the mark was a new mark in respect of the class of goods in respect of which the applicant used it.
emphasis supplied.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
in a given case like the present case where there is evidence with the department of the trade mark being owned by m s ltd and where there is evidence of the appellants trading on the reputation of m s ltd which is not rebutted by the appellants assesseeissuance of registration certificate with retrospective effect can not confer the benefit of exemption notification to the assessee.
rang 343.
