one lakshminarayana iyer a hindu brahmin who owned considerable properties in the tirunelveli district died on 13th december 1924 leaving him surviving a widow ranganayaki and a married daughter ramalakshmi.
before his death he executed a will on 16th november 1924 the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
by this will he gave the following directions after my lifetime you the aforesaid ranganayaki amminal my wife shall till your lifetime enjoy the aforesaid entire properties the outstandings due to me the debts payable by me and the chit amounts payable by me.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
on the 24th july 1945 the widow describing herself as an absolute owner of the properties of her husband sold one of the items of the property to the 2nd defendant for rs 500.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband s estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
the plaintiff was allowed to amend his plaint and include therein a prayer for a declaration in respect of the invalidity of these alienations as well.
the defendants pleaded that the plaintiff had no title to maintain the suit that the widow was entitled under the will to an absolute estate or at least to an estate analogous to and not less than a widow s estate that the estate given to ramalakshmi under the will was but a contingent one and she having predeceased the widow no interest in the suit properties devolved on the plaintiff.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow s estate and whether the daughter s interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
the subordinate judge held that the widow took under the will a limited life interest and not an absolute estate or even a widow s estate under hindu law and that the daughter got there under a vested interest in the properties to which the plaintiff succeeded on her death.
the high court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
the substantial question to decide in the appeal is whether the estate granted by the testator to his widow was a fall woman s estate under hindu law or merely a limited life estate in the english sense of that expression.
it was not contested before us that a hindu can by will create a life estate or successive life estates or any other estate for a limited term provided the donee or the persons taking under it are capable of taking under a deed or will.
the decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator s intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life estate or an estate analogous to that of a hindu widow.
at one time it was a moot point whether a hindu widow s estate could be created by will it being an estate created by law but it is now settled that a hindu can confer by means of a will oil his widow the same estate which she would get by inheritance.
the court s primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
considering the will in the light of these principles it seems to us that lakshminarayan iyer intended by his will to direct that his entire properties should be enjoyed by his widow during her lifetime but her interest in these properties should come to an end on her death that all these properties in their entirety should thereafter be enjoyed as absolute owners by his daughter and her heirs with powers of alienation gift exchange and sale from generation to generation.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
though no restraint in express terms was put on her powers of alienation in case of necessity even that limited power was not given to her in express terms.
if the testator had before his mind s eye his daughter and her heirs as the ultimate beneficiaries of his bounty that intention could only be achieved by giving to the widow a limited estate because by conferring a full hindu widow s estate on her the daughter will only have a mere spes successions under the hindu law which may or may not mature and under the will her interest would only be a contingent one in what was left indisposed of by the widow.
just as the widow was directed to enjoy tile entire properties mentioned in the schedule during her lifetime in like manner the daughter and her heirs were also directed to enjoy the same properties with absolute rights from generation to generation.
they could not enjoy the same properties in the manner directed if the widow had a full hindu widow s estate and had the power for any purpose to dispose of them and did so.
if that was the intention the testator would clearly have said that the daughter would only take the properties remaining after the death of the widow.
the widow can not be held to have been given a full hindu widow s estate under the will unless it can be said that under its terms she was given the power of alienation for necessary purposes whether in express terms or by necessary implication.
for the purpose of her maintenance for payment of debts etc and for settling the claim of the daughter in law she does not appear to have felt any necessity to make any alienation of any part of the estate mentioned in the schedule and the testator in all likelihood knew that she could fulfil these obligations without having recourse to alienations and hence he did not give her any power to do so.
in our opinion even if that suggestion is accepted that for the limited purposes mentioned in the will the widow could alienate this power would fall far short of the powers that a hindu widow enjoys under hindu law.
it can not be said that a hindu widow can only alienate her husband s estate for payment of debts to meet maintenance charges and for her own maintenance.
we therefore hold that the estate conferred on ranganayaki ammal was more like the limited estate in the english sense of the term than like a full hindu widow s estate in spite of the directions above mentioned.
and she thus got an interest in it on the testator s death.
according to jarman jarman on wills the law leans in favour of vesting of estates and the property disposed of belongs to the object of the gift when the will takes effect and we think the daughter got under this will a vested interest in the testator s properties on his death.
it was strenuously argued by mr k section krishnaswami iyengar that lakshminarayana iyer was a brahmin gentleman presumably versed in the sastras living in a village in the southernmost part of the madras state that his idea of a restricted estate was more likely to be one analogous to a hindu woman s estate than a life estate a understood in english law wherein the estate is measured by use and not by duration and that if this will was construed in the light of the notions of lakshminarayana iyer it should be held that the widow got under it a hindu widow s estate and the daughter got under it a contingent remainder in the nature of spes and on her death there was nothing which could devolve on the plaintiff and he thus had no locus standi to question the alienations made by the widow.
the will there recited that if a daughter or son was born to the testator during his lifetime such son or daughter would be the owner of all his properties but if there was no son or daughter his niece section would get a bequest of a lakh of rupees and the rest of the movable and immovable properties would remain in possession of his wife until her death and after her these would remain in possession of his niece.
the remainder was disposed of in the following words if on the death of my wife and my niece there be living a son and a daughter born of the womb of my said brother s daughter then two thirds of the movable property will belong to the son and one third to the daughter.
it was remarked that in spite of an express restriction against alienation the estate taken by section the niece was an estate such as a woman ordinarily acquires by inheritance under the hindu law which she holds in a completely representative character but is unable to alienate except in case of legal necessity and that such a construction was in accordance with the ordinary notions that a hindu has in regard to devolution of his property.
the restraint against alienation was repugnant to both a life estate and a widow estate and was not therefore taken into account.
under the will there dealt with the widow s was to enjoy the properties and after her lifetime the properties were to be taken in the ratio of three to five by the son s daughter and the daughter s son respectively.
a suit was instituted by the son s daughter for the recovery of possession of her share in one item of property forming part of the estate which had been sold by section the question for decision in that case was whether section was at all entitled to sell anything more than her life interest even for purposes of meeting a necessity binding upon the estate.
varadachari j held that since in the will the gift over to the grand children was of the entire properties and not a mere gift by way of defeasance it had to be held that it indicated that the prior gift in favour of the widow was only of a limited interest.
appeal dismissed.
