The reli ef prayed for in the said writ petition was for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the Union of India through t he Director General of Ordnance Factories to promote the appe l lants to the post of Chargeman II.
This was an argument neither pleaded as a ground for the petition nor was raised before the learn ed Single Judge.
If the appellants are promote d they will naturally have to be promoted with effect from t he date on which they ought to have been promoted.
There will be no order as to costs.
Howeve r merely on completion of two years  service a Supervisor  A  could not claim automatic promotion.
62 and 4416ANG dt.
Having heard learned counsel for the parties we fi nd substance in the submission made by the learned counsel f or the respondents.
Since Rule 8 in t he instant case prescribed a procedure for making promotion t he said procedure could not be abrogated by the executi ve instruction dated 6th November 1962.
The requirements of rule 8 in brief have already been indicated above.
The effect of this change obviously was th at now only fifty per cent vacancis in the post of Depu ty Collector being available in place of all the vacancies it was to take almost double the time for many other allocat ed Tehsildars to get promoted as Deputy Collectors.
In oth er words it resulted in delayed chance of promotion.
While repelling this submission the Constituti on Bench held All that happened as a result of making promotions to t he posts of Deputy Collectors divisionwise and limiting su ch promotions to 50 per cent of the total number of vacanci es in the posts of Deputy Collector was to reduce the chanc es of promotion available to the petitioners.
It is now we ll settled by the decision of this Court in State of Mysore vs GB Purohit that though a right to be considered for prom o tion is a condition of service mere chances of promoti on are not.
 It i s therefore clear that neither the Rules of July 30 195 9 nor the procedure for making promotions to the posts of Deputy Collector divisionwise varies the conditions of service of the petitioners to their disadvantage.
vs Union of India  Ors.
It indicates that approximately 125 diploma holders were r e cruited in 1962 550 in 1963 250 in 1964 150 in 1965 a nd 100 in 1966 the total number of such recruits being appro x imately 1175.
It appears that the remaining 50 diploma holde rs recruited in 1963 and those who had been recruited in t he begning of 1964 or thereafter could not be promoted inasmu ch as by the time their cases could be considered for promoti on the subsequent order dated 28th December 1965 had come in to force and had also come into force the circular dated 20 th January 1966 which had superseded the circular dated 6 th November 1962 and had provided that in future promotions of all such individuals will be effected in accordance with t he normal rules and not merely on the completion of two yea rs satisfactory continuous service.
It cannot be disputed that the Director General of Ordnance Factories who had issued the circular dated 6 th November 1962 had the power to issue the subsequent circ u lar dated 20th January 1966 also.
In view of.
3812 19 of 1983 with regard to a matter relevant for promotion.
It h as further been stated therein that after the newly creat ed posts were thus filled by promotion chances of promotion of those who were appointed subsequently diminished and f or want of sufficient number of 108 vacancies as Chargeman II they could not be promoted to th at post soon after the completion of 2 years  service.
There is a further averment in the said counter affidavit that pet i tioners were duly considered in their turn and their nam es were brought on the approved panel.
These writ petitions therefore deserve to be dismissed.
 In so far as Supervisors A  who claimed promotion as Chargeman 11 the following direction was accordingly giv en by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in its judgment dated 4 th April 1983 aforesaid All these petitioners are also entitled to be treated as Chargeman Grade II on completion of two years satisfacto ry service as Supervisor Grade A Consequently notion al seniority of these persons have to be refixed in Supervis or Grade A Chargeman Grade II Grade I and Assistant Forem an in cases of those who are holding that post  .
T he petitioners are also entitled to get their present sala ry re fixed after giving them notional seniority so that t he same is not lower than those who are immediately bel ow them.
We are further of the opinion that it is not a fit case for initiating any proceedings for contempt again st the respondents.
