The Judgement of the Court was delivered by SC AGRAWAL J These petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution raise a common question as to the validity of sub para 10 of para 218 of the Import  Export Policy for the period April 1988 to March 1991.
The writ petition and the appeal were decided by the Bombay High Court in accordance with the aforesaid decision of this Court in the case of Union of India vs Rajnikant Brothers supra and the High Court directed the authorities to grant Export House Certificates to the petitioners under the Import Policy 1978 79 within three months.
vs Union of India  Ors.
The matter was further clarified by this Court in DNavinchandra  Co Bombay  Anr.
vs Union of India  Ors.
These conditions had to be fulfilled.
Similarly the petitioners in 238 writ petition No 460 of 1988 herein were granted the Export House Certificate and an Additional licence dated August 31 1987.
These licences will be valid for import of the items appearing in Part I of List 8 Appendix 6 of this Policy.
The grievance of the petitioners is confined to sub para 10 of para 218 which lays down that Additional licences issued to Export HousesTrading Houses prior to April 1 1988 or issued after April 1 1988 on exports made during 1986 87 or earlier periods will not be eligible for the flexibilities in the import of items of raw materials components and consumables covered by Appendices 3 and Part A and items of non OGL capital goods other than those covered by Appendices 1 Part A 8 available under the revised Policy.
On behalf of the respondents it has been submitted by the learned Additional Solicitor General that there is no similarity between the petitioners who have been granted Additional licences on the basis of their exports made during the period 1977 78 in accordance with the Import Policy 1978 79 and the Export Houses who would be granted Additional licences on or after April 1 1988 under the Import  Export Policy 1988 91 inasmuch as the conditions of eligibility for grant of such licences and the value of licences under the Import  Export Policy 1978 79 were quite different from those contained in the Import  Export Policy 1988 91.
Under the Import  Export Policy 1978 79 there were two requirements for grant of Additional license one was the condition as to eligibility for registration as an Export House and grant of Export House Certificates and the other was the basis for issuing the Additional licences to Export House which had been granted Export House Certificates.
In para 176 of the said Policy it was laid down that the value of the Additional licences to be granted for 1978 79 would be calculated at one third of the fob value of the export of select products made in 1977 78 and manufactured by the small scale and cottage industries 244 plus 5 of the fob value of other exports of select products made in the same year.
The said 10 value can be 245 increased to 12 in cases where the Export House is able to achieve a minimum growth of 10 in terms of realisation in the previous year over the above the year preceding the same.
Shri HN Salve has however urged that in view of the decision of this Court in D Navinchandra  Co case supra the Export Houses who were granted Additional licences under the Import  Export Policy 1978 79 have to be treated at par with Export Houses who have been granted Additional licences under the Import  Export Policy for the subsequent years and since there has been relaxation in the matter of policy of canalisation of imports under sub para 4 of 246 para 215 in respect of Additional licences granted to Export Houses under the Import  Export Policy 1988 91 the petitioners are also entitled to a similar relaxation.
it was found and it is common ground now that was wrong.
We are of the opinion that this Court did not say that canalisation could be ignored.
That was not the issue.
 These observations only indicate that import of the canalised items under Additional licences issued to Export Houses like the petitioners would be permissible if the import policy prevailing at the time of import permits them to import such items.
Ltd wherein it is stated that this licence is valid for import of items as per para 215 of Import  Export Policy 1988 91 subject to restrictionsconditions laid down therein.
In view of the fact that the licence issued in favour of Ms Suraj Diamonds Industries was issued under a mistake and the said mistake has been rectified it cannot be said that the petitioners have been subjected to hostile discrimination vis a vis other Export House similarly situate.
The goods were not cleared by the customs authorities and the Collector of Customs imposed penalty and passed orders for confiscation of the goods and permitted the appellants to take delivery of good on payment of redemption fine.
As a result of the aforesaid discussion it must be held that the petitioners have failed to make out a case for interference by this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution.
Subject to the aforesaid observations the writ petitions are dismissed.
