before his death he executed a will on 16th november 1924 the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
by this will he gave the following directions after my lifetime you the aforesaid ranganayaki amminal my wife shall till your lifetime enjoy the aforesaid entire properties the outstandings due to me the debts payable by me and the chit amounts payable by me.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
ranganayaki entered into possession of the properties on the death of her husband.
on 21st february 1928 she settled the maintenance claim of lakshmi ammal and obtained a deed of release from her by paying her a sum of rs 3350 in cash and by executing in her favour an agreement stipulating to pay her a sum of rs 240 per annum.
a prayer was made that the widow be restrained from alienating the other properties in her possession.
on the 19th september 1945 an ad interim injunction was issued by the high court restraining the widow from alienating the properties in her possession and forming part of her husband s estate inspite of this injunction on the 27th september 1945 she executed two deeds of settlement in favour of the other defendants comprising a number of properties.
it was averred in the plaint that ramalakshmi obtained a vested interest in the suit properties under the will of her father and plaintiff was thus entitled to maintain the suit.
in view of this finding he granted the plaintiff a declaratory decree to the effect that the first defendant had only an estate for life in the suit properties and that the alienations made by her would not endure beyond her lifetime.
the question as to the validity of the alienations was left undetermined.
during the pendency of the appeal the widow died on 14th february 1948.
leave to appeal to the supreme court was granted and the appeal was admitted on the 27th november 1951.
the substantial question to decide in the appeal is whether the estate granted by the testator to his widow was a fall woman s estate under hindu law or merely a limited life estate in the english sense of that expression.
the decision of the appeal thus turns upon the question whether the testator s intention was to give to his widow ail ordinary life estate or an estate analogous to that of a hindu widow.
the court s primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
in other words to ascertain his wishes by putting itself so to say in his armchair.
considering the will in the light of these principles it seems to us that lakshminarayan iyer intended by his will to direct that his entire properties should be enjoyed by his widow during her lifetime but her interest in these properties should come to an end on her death that all these properties in their entirety should thereafter be enjoyed as absolute owners by his daughter and her heirs with powers of alienation gift exchange and sale from generation to generation.
he wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue male or female may have the benefit of his property.
in express terms he conferred on his daughter powers of alienation byway of gift exchange sale but in sharp contrast to this on his widow he conferred no such powers.
the direction to her was that she should enjoy the entire properties including the outstandings etc.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
if the testator had before his mind s eye his daughter and her heirs as the ultimate beneficiaries of his bounty that intention could only be achieved by giving to the widow a limited estate because by conferring a full hindu widow s estate on her the daughter will only have a mere spes successions under the hindu law which may or may not mature and under the will her interest would only be a contingent one in what was left indisposed of by the widow.
it is significant that the testator did not say in the will that the daughter will enjoy only the properties left indisposed of by the widow.
they could not enjoy the same properties in the manner directed if the widow had a full hindu widow s estate and had the power for any purpose to dispose of them and did so.
by this transaction she substituted one property by another.
in our opinion even if that suggestion is accepted that for the limited purposes mentioned in the will the widow could alienate this power would fall far short of the powers that a hindu widow enjoys under hindu law.
under that law she has the power to alienate the estate for the benefit of the soul of the husband for pilgrimage and for the benefit of the estate and for other authorized purposes.
it can not be said that a hindu widow can only alienate her husband s estate for payment of debts to meet maintenance charges and for her own maintenance.
we therefore hold that the estate conferred on ranganayaki ammal was more like the limited estate in the english sense of the term than like a full hindu widow s estate in spite of the directions above mentioned.
but she had no power to deal with the corpus of the estate.
and it had to be kept intact for the enjoyment of the daughter.
though the daughter was not entitled to immediate possession of the property it was indicated with certainty that she should get the entire estate at the proper time.
and she thus got an interest in it on the testator s death.
she was given a present right of future enjoyment in the property.
a 2 5.
nath prasad 3 pat.
l j 199.
but as regards the immovable property none shall have the lest right of alienation.
the restraint against alienation was repugnant to both a life estate and a widow estate and was not therefore taken into account.
but there were other indications in that will showing that a widow s estate had been given.
the fact that the gift over was a contingent bequest was by itself taken as a sure indication that the preceding bequest was that of a widow s estate.
1 m l j 268.
1936 indlaw mad 236.
under the will there dealt with the widow s was to enjoy the properties and after her lifetime the properties were to be taken in the ratio of three to five by the son s daughter and the daughter s son respectively.
a suit was instituted by the son s daughter for the recovery of possession of her share in one item of property forming part of the estate which had been sold by section the question for decision in that case was whether section was at all entitled to sell anything more than her life interest even for purposes of meeting a necessity binding upon the estate.
assuming that it is possible to create a hindu woman s estate not with standing the addition of a gift over the question nevertheless whether that had been done in a given case must depend on the terms of the particular instrument under consideration.
2 m l j 562 were next cited as the will gave her the right to enjoy the income of the estate during her lifetime it was evidently contemplated that she should as provided by the hindu law in the case of a widow be in possession of the estate.
in vasantharao ammannamma v venkata kodanda rao pantalu 1939.
indlaw mad 621 1940.
he omits the words during her life with reference to the disposition in favour of the daughter.
if it was the daughter s estate that was intended to be conferred there can be no question that the estate taken by the grandsons is not a vested interest.
the last decision referred to was the decision of the privy council in mahomed shumsool v shewukram 1874 indlaw pc 12 1874 75 2 i a 7 there a hindu inhabitant of bihar by a document of a testamentary character declared his daughter who had two daughters as his heir and after her two daughters together with their children were declared heirs and malik.
in construing the will of a hindu it is not improper to take into consideration what are known to be the ordinary notions and wishes of hindus with respect to the devolution of property.
the question in every case can not be determined merely on the theory that every hindu thinks only about a hindu widow s estate and no more.
he also on the analogy of other wills and the decisions given on their terms wanted a decision on the construction of this will in his favour.
in the first instance he placed reliance on a decision of the madras high court in ratna chetty v narayana swami chetty 19i4 26 m l j 616.
and then my wife would enjoy all the remaining properties with absolute rights.
if both of them would live together amicably muthu arunachala chetty himself would enjoy the properties which remain after the death of the widow.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
the gift to mst.
if she took the estate only of a hindu widow one consequence no doubt would be that she would be unable to alienate the profits or that at all events whatever she purchased out of them would be an increment to her husband s estate and the plaintiffs would be entitled to recover possession of all such property real and personal.
and my wife has powers to do in the same way as i have absolute powers to do when i am present and in case of my wife s death my daughter mahalaxmi is owner of the said property after that.
both the learned counsel eventually conceded that the language used in the will was consistent with the testator s intention of conferring a life estate in the english sense as well as with the intention of conferring a hindu widow s estate.
appeal dismissed.
