i was tried before the court of sessions visakhapatnam for offences under section 120 b indian penal code section 409 section 477 a and section 471 read with section 467 i p c while respondent No 2 was tried for an offence under section 120 b and for offences under sections 409 read with section 109 477 a and 471 read with section 467 i p c each of the respondents was convicted of the first two offences but.
p c for the enhancement of the sentences passed on the respondents.
the state of andhra pradesh has come up before this court in appeal by obtaining special leave under article 136 of the constitution.
we shall refer to this company throughout as the aeco.
it obtained licences from the government under the electricity act for supply of electrical energy to visakhapatnam anakapalli and some other places.
as the aeco did not have the necessary capital to undertake the work raju floated in the year 1933 a public limited company called visakhapatnam electric supply corporation ltd and another in the year 1936 called the anakapalli electric supply corporation ltd the aeco transferred its licences for the supply of electrical energy to the consumers of visakhapatnam to vesco and similarly transferred to aeco the licence to supply electrical energy to consumers at anakapalli.
the aeco was appointed managing agent for each of these corporations under separate agreements.
a mention may be made of the fact that in june 1952 the vesco undertaking was acquired by the government under the provisions of the electricity undertaking acquisition act but nothing turns on it.
according to the prosecution both these concerns were running smoothly and efficiently during the lifetime of d l n raju because he was personally attending to their affairs.
eventually many of those ventures failed.
according to the prosecution the second raju was not bestowing sufficient care and attention on the affairs of vesco.
in 1944 this person resigned from his appointments and started his own business in radio and electrical goods in the name of d brothers.
the respondent No 1.
he pressed his claim for appointment as secretary of vesco and representative of the managing agents at visakhapatnam and r h g raju appointed him to that post.
all this is not disputed.
his dual capacity enabled the respondent No i to earn the confidence not only of the directors of aeco but also of those of vesco.
as secretary of vesco it was his duty to convene the meetings of the board of directors to present before them the periodical statement of receipts and expenditure of vesco to convene meetings of the general body to prepare the managing agents report and the director s report as also to see to the presentation of auditors report and the statement of accounts.
it was also his duty to have the accounts of vesco audited by the auditors elected by the general body and to produce before the auditors the relevant accounts vouchers bank statements and so on.
one significant fact however which occurred prior to 1946 is referred to by the prosecution.
of which the respondent No i was a director.
according to the prosecution the respondent No i wanted to take advantage of this fact and conceived of a scheme for misappropriating as much money belonging to vesco as possible before the managing agency agreement of aeco came to an end in october 1948.
srinivasa rao originally a stores boy.
the conspiracy is said to have been hatched in the year 1947 and falsification of accounts and misappropriation of funds of vesco went on till the end of the accounting year.
after the death of r k n g raju it was discovered that the aeco was indebted to many concerns which were under its managing agency the liability being shown either as that of aeco or that of r k n g raju personally.
again the vesco was shown as indebted to the andhra cement to the extent of rs 42 000.
i and some of his friends were in search of a rich and substantial man who would be amenable to them to fill the post of managing director of aeco.
eventually their choice fell on g v subba raju p w 25 a resident of manchili who held a large number of shares in the aeco and who was besides related to r k n g raju by marriage.
i opened four personal accounts in different banks including the imperial bank of india.
these amounts also used to be noted in the private note book and entered.
amounts which had been misappropriated used to be posted therein though in fact no orders were placed for any material.
at that time it used to be represented to him that the amounts which were shown to be in the safe and not found therein had been sent to the bank for being deposited.
apparently subba raju was fully satisfied with this and other explanations and therefore he appointed one c section raju who was the manager of andhra cements to supervise over the affairs of vesco apparently because of this a new method of misappropriation was adopted by the respondents by starting in the vesco account books an account called suspense account.
a lakh of rupees passed through that account.
amounts which were misappropriated used to find their way in this account.
a new cash book was also said to have been prepared by the conspirators with the object of covering up the misappropriations which had been made.
subba raju was not satisfied with the nature of supervision exercised by c section raju over the affairs of vesco because he used to look only at the cash book entries of the days on which he paid visits to vesco s office to which he used to go with previous intimation.
besides that c section raju s management of andhra cements had landed it into a loss of rs 30 000.
because of all these things he had c section raju replaced towards the end of the year 1951 by one subbaramayya a retired finance officer from the madras electricity board both as a director of andhra cements and as a supervisor over the accounts of vesco.
subbaramayya took his work seriously and called for information on a number of points from the respondent No 1.
he however was unable to obtain any information.
in the meantime on november 29 1951 there was a meeting of the general body at which the accounts were among other things to be considered.
however the meeting was postponed and eventually held on december 9 1951.
according to the prosecution the report is a forged document.
section g krishna aiyar after his appointment in january 1952 made close enquiry and submitted an interim report.
he was given time for doing so but he failed to pay it.
the directors of vesco thereafter authorised k section dutt one of the directors to lodge a complaint with the police which he accordingly lodged on may 19 1952.
as a result of investigation they found that there was a total misappropriation of rs 3 40 000.
as already stated the additional sessions judge convicted both the respondents the respondent No i in respect of each head of the offences with which he was charged and the respondent No 2 in respect only of the offences of conspiracy and misappropriation.
according to it the provisions of section 239 were of no avail.
next according to the high court even if section 239 is applicable its provisions are subject to those of section 234 and as such the trial being for more than three offences was impermissible.
further according to the high court where a conspiracy has yielded its fruits the conspirators can be charged with the actual offences committed and not with conspiracy to commit those offences.
charge of conspiracy according to the high court can be validly made only when the prosecution establishes that every conspirator expected to receive a personal benefit from it and that the prosecution has not been able to establish that the respondent No 2 or the approver evidently had any such expectations since they did not in fact receive any corresponding benefit.
the high court has also held that his evidence is unreliable and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing him to refresh his memory by referring to various documents in a manner not permitted by section 159 of the evidence act.
the high court has further stated that inadmissible evidence was taken on record by the additional sessions judge namely account books of billimoria brothers maintained in gujrati and further that the additional sessions judge was in error in allowing the prosecution to use those account books for establishing absence of entries with regard to certain payments alleged in the vesco books to have been made to them.
the points which he urged are briefly these 1 that there was a misjoinder of charges and persons in that the various provisions of section 239 were clubbed together and an omnibus charge of conspiracy was framed which on its face was one likely to embarrass the respondents and make their task of defending themselves difficult.
the procedure adopted in the investiga tion and committal stages was irregular.
3 irrelevant evidence was introduced and some evidence was introduced in a manner not authorised by the evidence act.
4 that the court abused its powers under s 342 cr.
if the evidence of the approver is left out the remaining evidence would be inadequate to sustain the prosecution case.
the first question for consideration is whether there was a misjoinder of parties and of persons.
but certain objections have been taken to it with which we will deal at the appropriate place.
it is thus apparent that offences committed within a space of 12 months were tried along with offences committed beyond that period.
each clause is an exception to the general rule enacted in section 233 cr.
221 to 223 deal with the framing and content of charge.
226 to 231 deal with the power of the court with regard to framing and altering charges and the procedure to be adopted at the trial where a charge is found to be defective or there is no charge or where a new charge is to be framed.
then we come to the other sub head of this chapter.
234 235 236 and 239.
full effect can not possibly be given to this provision if we hold that it is subject to the limitation of s 2341.
thus this is a special provision available in case of doubt and is neither subject to the limitations prescribed by section 233 nor those of the other preceding provisions.
a conspiracy must be regarded as one transaction and there fore a single individual charged with it could be tried with the aid of section 2351 for all the acts committed by him in furtherance or in pursuance of the conspiracy without the limitations imposed by s 2341.
let us therefore examine closely the provisions of section 239.
f there is a conjunction and.
if the intention of the legislature was that the provisions of these clauses should be available only alternatively it would have used the word or and not and which has the opposite effect.
obviously section 233 does not override the provisions of section 239.
section 234 can not also be regarded as an overriding provision because reading it that way will lead to the clear result that whereas several accused persons can be charged at the same trial with any number of different offences committed by them in the course of the same transaction they can not be tried also for offences of the same kind exceeding three in number and committed beyond a space of 12 months from the first to the last.
again as already stated section 2341 does not override the provisions of section 2351 which permits trial of a person for more offences than one committed during any period provided they are so connected together as to form one transaction.
c of section 239.
c of section 239 is subject to the provisions of section 234.
therefore even if the expression same transaction alone had been used in section 2351 it would have meant a transaction consisting either of a single act or of a series of connec ted acts.
a c and d of section 239 as well as that occurring in section 2351 ought to be given the same meaning according to the normal rule of construction of statutes.
looking at the matter in that way it is pointless to inquire further whether the provisions of section 239 are subject to those of section 2361.
but it would be open to the court to resort to those provisions even in the case of a joint trial of several persons permissible under section 239 s 236.
bearing in mind the fact that the provisions in the former part of chapter xix are applicable to charges made with the aid of section 239 only so far as may be it would not be right to construe section 239 as being subject to the provisions of sections 233 to 236.
apart from this the question whether the provisions of sections 233 to 236 have or have no overriding effect on section 239.
is not strictly germane to the question considered by the high court that is clubbing together all the provisions of the various clauses of section 239.
we entirely agree with the high court that joint trial should be founded on some principle.
but we find it difficult to appreciate what seems to be the view of the high court that because each  clause of section 239 enunciates a separate principle those principles are so to speak mutually exclusive and can not be cumulatively resorted to for trying several persons jointly in respect of several offences even though they form part of the same transaction.
in other words as the high court puts it persons included in two or more of the groups can not all be tried together and that since there is absolutely nothing to connect one group with any other the persons of one group can not be tried with those of any other.
a and b.
let us consider these clauses along with another illustration.
each of them has committed two offences and each of them participated in the same offence.
c they could be tried together because the offences are of the same kind.
a and c can not be combined.
some of the members of the unlawful assembly carried axes with them while some others carried lathis and attacked the other group.
during the course of the attack one person from the second group was killed as a rest of blows with an axe inflicted by the aggressors a b and c two persons of the second group sustained grievous hurt as a result of lathi blows and one person sustained simple hurt.
a of section 239.
d yet the transaction in which the offences were committed is the same and there is a close association amongst the persons who have committed the different offences.
a and d of section 239.
all these persons can be jointly tried for offences under section 147 by recourse to cl.
a so also a b and c could be jointly tried together for an offences under section 302.
a is unavailable they could not be tried for the offence under section 147 at the same trial.
to repeat the object of the legislature in enacting section 239 cr.
the reasons given by the allahabad high court therefore do not merit acceptance.
the high court however held that to be a kind of case which fell under section 2351 of the code and that since that was so the provisions of section 236 were excluded.
being exceptions to section 233 must be strictly construed and that if joinder of charges did not fall under any of them it would be illegal and contrary to law.
on the other band there is the decision of this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinmlla subbaiah which is to the effect that where several persons had committed offences in the course of the same transactions they could jointly be tried in respect of all those offences under section 239 of the code of criminal procedure and the limitation placed by section 234 of the code could not come into operation.
there nine persons were jointly tried for an offence under section 5 1 c and d of the prevention of corruption act 1947 and section 109 i p c read with s 420 section 466 and section 467 i p c and all except one for offences under sections 420 467471 i p c some of them were also charged with separate offences under some of these provisions.
the high court allowed the revision application.
but on appeal by the state of andhra pradesh to this court this court held that there was no misjoinder of charges that the introduction of a large number of charges spread over a long period was a question of propriety and that it should be left to the judge or the magistrate trying the case to adopt the course which he thought to be appropriate in the facts and circumstances of the case.
but then section 235 1 provides that if in any one series of acts so connected together as to form the same transaction more offences than one are committed by the same person he may be charged with and tried at one trial for every such offence.
239 would apply.
clearly therefore all the accused persons could be tried together in respect of all the offences now comprised in charge No 1.
in that case this court upheld the order of the high court of madras in quashing the charges in the exercise of its inherent powers even before the conclusion of the trial.
it is true that there the charges were 67 in number and spread over a long period of time.
but in the case before us no objection was taken to multiplicity or misjoinder of charges before the learned additional sessions judge and it was only in the high court that the point was raised.
in willie william slaney v the state of madhya pradesh all the learned judges were in agreement on the point that this section and section 535 cover every case in which there is departure from the rules set out in ch.
this decision completely meets the argument based upon dawson s case.
bhimasankaram supporting the view taken by the high court then contends that it is not permissible to frame a charge of conspiracy when the matter has proceeded beyond the stage of conspiracy and that in pursuance of it offences have actually been committed.
a similar view was expressed by the same high court in the case which was reversed by this court in the state of andhra pradesh v kandinalla subbaiah 1962 2 scr 194 and it was held that conspiracy to commit an offence being itself an offence a person can be separately charged with respect to such a conspiracy.
in swamirathnam s case 1 which is a decision of this court certain persons were tried for the offence of the conspiracy to cheat the members of the public and for specific offences of cheating in pursuance of that conspiracy.
this decision has been followed in natwarlal sakarlal.
a No iii of 1959 decided on january 19 1961.
here again the question of clubbing together of the various provisions of cls.
but the ultimate decision of the case would negative such argument.
criminal conspiracy as defined in section 120 a and consists of an agreement to do an illegal act or an agreement to do an act which is not illegal by illegal means.
but what the amendment did was to make that conspiracy itself punishable.
but it does not follow that where crimes have been committed the liability to punishment already incurred under section 120 b by having entered into a criminal conspiracy is thereby wiped away.
as we are remanding the appeal to the high court for a fresh decision after full consideration of the evidence adduced in the case it would be open to it to consider this matter particularly while judging the credibility of the evidence of the approver.
be said to vitiate the charge.
in support of his first contention he referred to questions nos 4 8 9 10 and 20 put to the respondent No i and question No 12 put to the respondent No 2 and tried to show that those questions rolled up a large number of separate questions and that it could not have been possible for the respondents to give any rational answers to those questions.
in fact written statements have been filed by each of them in which every point left over has been fully answered.
a pointed reference was made to question.
No 20 put to respondent.
it is true that by introducing this provision the disability placed on an accused person in respect of giving evidence on oath in his own defence has been removed and to that extent such person is placed on par with an accused person under the english law.
the high court has pointed out that the main evidence on which the prosecution rests its case that the amount represented by the entries against these various firms were in.
fact misappropriated by the respondents in the circumstance that there are no corresponding entries in the account books of those firms.
cal 1024 upon which reliance is placed by the high court in support of its view is also to that effect.
similarly in ram prashad singh v lakhpati koer 1902 i l r 30.
cal 231 247.
absence of entries in their account books would be inconsistent with the receipt of the accounts and would thus be a relevant fact which can be proved under section 11.
both the sets of facts are relevant that is non receipt of the amounts by the firms and non existence of entries in their account books pertaining to those amounts.
it is under these provisions that the account books of the firms must be held to be relevant.
what value to attach to them is another matter and would be for the court of fact to consider.
the high court was clearly wrong in so holding.
in coming to this conclusion it has relied upon the provisions of section 356 2a of the code of criminal procedure.
in the circumstances we wish to say nothing further on the point.
we may however point out that billimoria himself gave his evidence in english.
in our opinion where a witness has to depose to a large number of transactions and those transactions referred to are or mentioned either in the account books or in other documents there is nothing wrong in allowing the witness to refer to the account books and the documents while answering the questions put to him in his examination.
that is precisely what happened in this case and we do not think that the additional sessions judge adopted a procedure which was either a violation of law or was an abuse of the power of the court.
according to mr bhimasankaram the pardon tendered to the approver was illegal and if the pardon is illegal his evidence is wholly inadmissible.
for all these reasons the evidence of the approver must be left out of account.
he contends that since the offence is punishable with transportation for life section 337 1 could not be availed of for granting pardon to the approver.
it seems to us that it would not be correct to read section 337 1 in the way sought by learned counsel.
he suggests that this provision can also be reasonably interpreted to mean that where the offences are punishable with imprisonment exceeding 10 years pardon may be granted to the approver.
for the pardon granted in this case can be regarded as being within the ambit of section 337 1 for another reason.
this section does not expressly say that the only punishment provided for the offence should be imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
be that as it may there is no substance in the first ground.
as regards the offence under section 477 a it is one of those sections which are specifically enumerated in section 337 1 and the argument advanced before us and which we have rejected would not even be available with regard to the pardon in respect of that offence.
it is true that the respondent No i alone was convicted by the additional sessions judge of this offence and the offence under section 467 read with section 471 but the validity of a pardon is to be determined with reference to the offence alleged against the approver alone and not with reference to the offence or offences for which his associates were ultimately convicted.
coming to the next ground of attack on the validity of pardon the argument of mr bhimasankaram is that whereas section 337 1 speaks of pardon being granted by a district magistrate or presidency magistrate a sub divisional magistrate or any magistrate of first class except in cases where an enquiry or trial was pending before another magis tratc the pardon here was granted by the additional district magistrate in a case where an enquiry was pending before the district magistrate and is therefore illegal and of no avail.
he contends that section 337 1 speaks of the district magistrate which expression does not include an additional district magistrate.
iii to the code a magistrate first class has the power to grant pardon under section 337 but it is limited by the proviso thereto to certain classes of cases.
a case under enquiry or trial before another magistrate does not fall in any of these classes.
alternatively the state government has not made any directions under sub s 2 of section 10 specifying the powers of the district magistrate which would lie exercisable by the additional district magistrate concerned.
in order to appreciate and consider the argument it is desirable to bear in mind the changes in the magisterial set up in the former province of madras which comprised within it the district of visakhapatnam.
by government order No 3106 dated september 9 1949 the government of the province of madras issued certain instructions to the magistrates in pursuance of the separation of the judiciary from the executive.
consequent on the separation.
he became only an additional district magistrate.
his point is that the proviso to section 3371 confers the power on the district magistrate to grant pardon in a case pending before another magistrate and not on a district magistrate and therefore his power to grant pardon in such cases can not be conferred under sub s 2 of section 10 on an additional district magistrate.
according to him under that section only the powers of a district magistrate meaning thereby only the powers under entry 7 a in part v of sch.
as distinguished from the power under the proviso to section 337 1 can be conferred upon an additional district magistrate.
in our opinion there is no subtance in the contention.
but entry 7 a in part v of sch.
iii when it refers to the power of a district magistrate under section 337 1 does not exclude the power under the proviso.
in re the appellant i l r 1957 mad 715 and the cases referred to therein in particular the decision in winson v queen 1866 l r i q b what has been held in all these cases is that where the trial of a person who was charged with having committed an offence or offences jointly with several persons is separated from the trial of those persons he would be a competent witness against them though of course there will always be the question as to what weight should be attached to his evidence.
but in the view we take about the legal validity of the pardon tendered we do not wish to pronounce one way or the other on this very interesting question.
now as regards the reliability of the approver.
we however find that certain documents upon which mr chari wants to rely are not included in the paper book.
the better course would be for us to set aside the acquittal of the respondents and send back the appeal to the high court or being decided on merits.
but it should remove from its mind the misconception that the additional sessions judge has not believed him.
there is another thing which we would like to make clear.
the decision in sarwan singh v the state of punjab 1957 b c r 953 on which reliance has been placed by the high court has been explained by this court in the case of maj e g barsay v the state of bombay.
it would be necessary for it to consider for itself the evidence adduced by the prosecution on the specific charges and then to conclude whether those charges have been established or not.
appeal allowed.
case remanded.
