the appellant had filed a suit on october 24 1942 for the recovery of rs 2 lakhs and interest thereon from the date of suit and for costs originally against the state of travancore now the state of kerala the respondent and three others who however were not made parties in the appeal before the high court.
it was the appellant s case that he had been in occupation of the said 160 acres of cherikkal land unregistered dry lands in hilly tracts about which and the adjoining lands there was a dispute as to whether the same belonged to a jenmi family known as koodalvalli illom hereinafter called the illom or to the government of the erstwhile travancore state.
the appellant s father and the appellant had occupied these lands made improvement thereon by planting coconut trees arecanut palms peppervines rubber trees jack trees other trees and by constructing bungalow huts wells etc.
in the bona fide belief that the lands belonged to the illom.
it was stated that according to the practice prevailing in the erstwhile state of travancore the cultivators could enter into unoccupied waste lands belonging to the janmies with the object of cultivating and improving them and as they held the lands under them by paying rent the consent of the jemies to such occupation was implied.
it is the case of the appellant that even after the act was passed unauthorised occupants of land belonging to the government who had made improvements therein had under the rules made both under the act and the land assignment act a preferential claim over others for getting kuthakapattom or assignment of the property in their possession.
a while the application for registration was pending the dispute between the illom and the state of travancore had reached a stage when the illom had to institute a suit o section No.
126 of 1096.
january 1918 in the district court at quilon for a declaration of its title to those properties.
an appeal against it was dismissed on september 27 1943.
112 of 1100 1925 a d as the suit of the illom had been finally disposed of and the title of the illom to the lands was not established the appellant apprehending that he might be ejected in the above l c case filed a suit.
a rubbers state and a large number of other valuable trees like jack trees mango trees coconut trees etc.
112 of 11 00 m e an order was passed for dispossessing the appellant on july 24 1939 ext.
112 of 11 00 m e and he was evicted in due course that the trespass by the appellant was of recent origin that the allegation that the entry was made in the belief that the land belonged to the illom was false that the revenue and forest departments did not harass the appellant but they took steps for dispossessing him only in accordance with the law that the commissioner s report was not correct in that all the improvements noted by the commissioner were not made by the appellant but by other independent squatters that after due notice an order of forfeiture had been passed in l c case.
112 of 1100 m e and the appellant was therefore not entitled to claim any value for improvements as it was his duty to remove any building before he was evicted.
the trial court also held that all through these long years there had been a dispute as to the title between the illom and the state and after the suit of the illom was dismissed and the illom s title was not sustained the allegation that the improvements were effected can not be stated to be bona fide.
all this according to the trial court would show that the appellant was aware that he was remaining on government lands without title.
in the circumstances the question that had to be considered was whether without an order of forfeiture being passed the respondent could forfeit the improvements.
12 6 1094 the petitioner knew that the land was government land and had then applied for assignment of the land.
accordingly the high court found that at no time the occupation of the land by the appellant was under a bona fide claim of title.
the contention of the appellant that the trees which are the subject matter of the appeal should have been forfeited by an order passed under section 9 of the act and in the absence of such.
an order his right to the value of those trees had to be adjudged and paid.
in its view these words take in what is familiarly known in law as emblements which according to black s.
it was also of the view that the claim for compensation for trees which has to be dealt with under the general law under which a mere trespasser would have no rights to the payment of compensation nor could be.
appellant be allowed to remove them after his dispossession.
another reason for disallowing the compensation for trees given by the high court was that the position of a trespasser whether he be a mere trespasser or a trespasser under a bona fide claim of title cannot be better than that of a tenant and that if this is correct then the appeal has to be dismissed on the short ground that there is no principle of law or equity which requires the payment of compensation in respect of trees the ownership of which was all along or at any rate from the dale of the trespasser s dispossession vested in the state.
the learned advocate for the appellant has reiterated the submissions made before the trial court and the high court and contends that there is no order forfeiting the improvements as required under section 9 of the act and if section 9 does not apply and there is no right of forfeiture as contemplated under section 9 then the appellant is entitled to compensation under the general law.
apart from this contention towards the end of his argument the learned advocate for the appellant sought to make out a fresh case namely that as the appellant was not served with a notice to quit as required under section 9 of the act but was forcibly evicted without giving him an opportunity of cutting and taking away the trees etc.
from the lands from which he was evicted he would be entitled to claim compensation for the improvements made by him.
a and also to the fact that after the application for registration was rejected the appellant tried to get himself impleaded in the suit filed by the illom against the state which application was also rejected and so the claim that his possession was bona fide or that he was a bona fide trespasser has no validity.
forfeiture under this section shall be disposed of as the division peishkar may direct.
it was conceded before the trial court and no attempt was made to establish anything to the contrary before the high court that no notice of forfeiture as required under section 9 was given to the appellant.
but the meaning to be ascribed to that word is that it connotes in its larger signification products of the soil that are grown and raised yearly and are gathered during a single season.
in this sense the term includes fructus industrials and having regard to the etymology of the word it has been held to mean only products after they have been severed from the soil.
the same dictionary gives the meaning of the word product as follows product with reference to property proceeds.
it may however include the fruit of the trees.
this view of ours is supported by the case of clark and another v gaskarth 8 taunt 431.
that was a case of a trespass for breaking and entering the closes of the plaintiffs and tearing up digging up cutting down and carrying away the plaintiff s trees plants roots and seeds growing on the closes.
but the learned advocate for the appellant submits that it was not his case nor is it under the general law necessary for a person who trespassed on the land to trespass with a claim of bona fide title.
no authority has been cited for this novel proposition and if accepted it would give validity to a dangerous principle which will condone all acts of deliberate and wrongful trespass because any person desparate enough to trespass on other mans land without any claim of title can always plead that he had a bona fide intention of improving the land whether the owner of that land wants that improvement or not.
both the assistant judge and the high court negatived the claim of the appellant.
the board however agreed with what was apparently the view of both courts in india that under the circumstances of this case as already set forth by the law of india which they appear to have correctly interpreted the government officials were in possession not as mere trespassers but under such a colour of title that the buildings erected by them on the land ought not to be included in the valuation as having become the property of the landowner.
as it has now been contended before us.
in it has been held that the appellant was not a mere trespasser and had deliberately entered upon the lands knowing full well that he had no right claim or title to the lands or had in any manner a right to enter the land and has been rightly evicted as a trespasser he can not now be permitted to raise this contention before us.
appeal dismissed.
