the dispute centres around a fishery called nalban fishery.
a suit for partition was filed by one of the co sharers of said sarkar family in the high court of calcutta on 3 9 1955which was registered as suit no 2539 of 1955 the schedule of properties included the disputed nalban fishery.
a learned single judge of the calcutta high court passed a preliminary decree in the said suit on 11 8 1960 one of the co sharers of the sarkar family preferred an appeal against the preliminary decree before the division bench which was registered as appeal no200 of 1960 during the pendency of the aforesaid appeal the state of west.
bengal requisitioned large extent of fisheries including the disputed nalban fishery on 5 11 1969 in exercise of power under section 31 of the west bengal land requisition and acquisition act of 1948 hereinafter referred to as the requisition act pursuant to the aforesaid requisition order the state of west bengal took possession of the nalban fishery on 8 11 1969 members of the sarkar family challenged the order of requisition by filing a writ petition in calcutta high court in november1969 which was registered as civil rule no 7317 w of 1969 the aforesaid writ petition was dismissed by the learned single judge.
bengal was in fact in possession of the said fishery.
it may be noticed at this stage that bansilal farms appellant in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992 was the highest offerer for running the boating complex on the surface water of nalban fishery and had been granted licence for that purpose and in fact had started the operation of the boating complex since 1991 but on the application of mrs dhira mitra one of the co sharers of the sarkar family the high court having issued an order of injunction the farm is no longer operating.
s s ray the learned senior counsel appearing for bansilal farms and mr g ramaswamy the learned senior counsel appearing for the state fishery development corporation ltd contended that a compromise decree between the parties in a suit for partition will not in army way affect the rights of the state in respect of the fisheries whether such rights the state acquires by virtue of an order of requisition under the requisition act or by virtue of any other statutory provisions under which the fisheries right vest in the state.
it was further contended that this court while giving affect to the compromise arrived at between the sarkar family made it explicitely clear that the said compromise will not in any way affect the rights of the state over the fisheries even if those fisheries agreed to be divided between the parties and in that view of the matter and the state of west bengal having already requisitioned the nalban fishery and having taken possession of the same the receiver could not have taken possession of the said nalban fishery pursuant to the order of this court appointing the collector 24 parganas as receiver and.
the calcutta high court both the learned single judge as well as the division bench committed serious error of law in directing the receiver to take possession of nalban fishery from the state of west bengal and deliver the vacant possession of the same to the members of the sarkar family.
gupta also contended that the order of the high court of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 23 9 1980 directing the receiver to allow m s ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots and thereafter carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect thereof has become final the same not having been challenged by the state of west.
bengal and therefore it would not be open for the said state in application for execution of the decree to raise the question of vesting of the nalban fishery with the state and the court would not interfere with the direction given by the learned single judge and division bench of the calcutta high court.
gupta contended that the validity of the said act has been challenged and is pending before the calcutta high court an interim order has been passed in the said proceeding and therefore until that matter is decided it can not be said.
the aforesaid order directing impleadment of the state of west bengal as a 7 party was obviously intended for the purpose that the interest of the state and the rights of the state in relation of the state and the rights of the state in relation of the state and the rights of the state in relation to several fisheries could be protected.
bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they are vested in the state under the provisions of west bengal estates acquisition act1953.
further while directing the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree this court also protected the interest of the state by observing we made it quite clear that this will not in any manner prejudice or affect the right of the state to its claim over the fisheries under the west bengal acquisition act 1955 west bengal act 1 of 1954 or under any other statute.
bengal ca nt be bound down by the so called allotment of fisheries in favour of some members of the sarkar family under the compromise decree in question.
the dismissal of the special leave petition as aforesaid affirmed that the nalban fishery had been legally requisitioned by the state of west bengal and the state was in possession of the same since 8 11 1969.
the receiver appointed by a court is an officer of the court.
as has been stated earlier the possession which was taken by the earlier receiver was a symbolical one and factually the state had not been divested of its possession which it took on 8 11 1969 in our considered opinion the succeeding receiver rightly took into account the directions of this court passed on 18 4 1979 and 24 4 1979 and rightly took the view that the rights and interest of the state in relation to nalban fishery is not affected in any manner by the so called allotment of the fishery in the partition decree amongst the members of the sarkar family.
the next question that arises for consideration is whether the order of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 6 10 1980 would operate as res judicata since the state did not challenge the same.
the order was in fact a direction to the collector 24 paraganas who had been appointed as a receiver by the supreme court in the pending appeal before it.
bengal in respect of the nalban fishery as the state was not a party to the proceedings.
after such demarcation is made the commissioner of partition is directed to approve the same and carry out the direction of the honble supreme court in respect thereof.
does not in any way take away rights of the state of west.
bengal which is otherwise protected by the supreme court while passing the compromise decree.
in view of our earlier conclusion that the rights and interest of the state of west bengal was not in any way be affected by the so called partition and allotment of the nalban fishery inter se amongst the members of the sarkar family the said order dated 63 10 1980 passed by the learned single judge of the calcutta high court will not stand on the way of the state in claiming and putting forth its interest and right over the nalban fishery.
the contention of mr gupta appearing for the respondents therefore cannot be sustained.
we would further observe that the state should determine the amount of compensation which the sarkar family is entitled to under the relevant provisions of the act under which nalban fishery vests with the state of west bengal and the compensation amount be paid on being determined in accordance with the law to the family members of sarkar family in whose favour nalban fishery had been allotted under the compromise decree by this court.
there will be no order as to costs.
order accordingly.
