these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
background facts.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
on or about 17 3 1997 however they began receiving a salary of rs 1500 per month.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
if no then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
proceedings before the tribunal.
the parties filed their respective pleadings before the labour court and also adduced their respective evidences.
the labour court on the basis of the materials produced before it arrived at the following findings 1.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
their work was satisfactory.
aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award the respondent authority herein filed a writ petition before the madhya pradesh high court indore bench which was marked as writ petition no 1188 of 1997.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
high court judgment.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
the learned counsel would submit that the sufficient materials were brought on records to show that vacancies were available and as the appellants worked for a period of more than six months they became permanent employees in terms of the act.
as regard the claim of equal pay for equal work the learned counsel would urge that the high court has failed to consider the same in its true perspective.
drawing our attention also to the pleadings as also the reliefs claimed for by the appellants before the labour court the learned counsel would contend that no contention was raised therein by the appellants as regard their entitlement of permanency in terms of the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
provisions section 22 of the 1961 act.
2 of the standard standing order reads as under 2.
classification of employees.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
i above.
12 of the constitution of india.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
regularisation can not be claimed as a matter of right.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
the constitutional scheme which the country has adopted does not contemplate any backdoor appointment.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
all actions of the state must conform to the constitutional requirements.
a daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.
bal kishan soni and others 1997 5 scc 86 1997 indlaw sc 928.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
in this case except the nodal centre functions and supervision of the cooperative society the state has no administrative control over its day to day affairs.
the state has not created any post nor they could do so on their own.
yet recently in pankaj gupta ors etc.
jt 2004 8 sc 531 2004 indlaw sc 729 a division bench of this court opined no person illegally appointed or appointed without following the procedure prescribed under the law is entitled to claim that he should be continued in service.
case law relied upon by the appellant.
in dr a k jain and others etc.
vs union of india and others 1987 supp.
scc 497.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
in niadar and another vs delhi administration and another 1992 4 scc 112 1988 indlaw sc 244 again no law has been laid down.
application of the act and the rules.
the statute rules and regulations formed by the state govern the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the respondent.
the 1973 act as noticed hereinbefore clearly mandates that all posts should be sanctioned by the state government and all appointments to the said cadre must be made by the state government alone.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
the said provisions were not complied with.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
who made the appointments of the appellants to the project or other works carried on by the authority is not known.
the 1973 act or the rules framed there under do not provide for appointments on ad hoc basis or on daily wages.
constitution being the suprema lax shall prevail over all other statutes.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
vis a vis the 1973 act and the rules framed thereunder.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
for the purpose of regularization which would confer on the concerned employee a permanent status there must exist a post.
we have used the term keeping in view the provisions of 1963 rules.
presumably the appellants were aware of the statutory limitations in this behalf.
furthermore the labour court having derived its jurisdiction from the reference made by the state government it was bound to act within the four corners thereof.
a demand which was not raised at the time of raising the dispute could not have been gone into by the labour court being not the subject matter thereof.
the labour court in absence of any pleadings or any proof as regard application of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had proceeded on the basis that they would become permanent employees in terms of order 2ii and 2vi of the annexure appended thereto.
the scheme of the employees provident fund or the leave rules would not alter the nature and character of their appointments.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
project work.
as noticed hereinbefore the high court s observation remained unchallenged that the project was to be financed by oda.
such a relief would have been beyond the scope and purport of the reference made to the labour court by the state government.
furthermore the indore municipal corporation was not a party and thus no employee could be thrust upon it without its consent.
apex bank ltd vs.
amar singh and others 2003 5 scc 388 2003 indlaw sc 331.
however it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
adverse inference.
they did not do so.
in absence of any pleadings the appellants could not have called for any document to show that the provisions of the 1961 act and 1963 rules would apply.
2004 air scw 5476.
the application calling for the production of the documents was for the years 1987 to 1992.
as stated above between the period 1987 to 1990 as a matter of fact till end of the year 1990 the respondents have not been able to establish the case of continuous work for 240 days.
considering these facts in our view drawing of an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the years 1991 92 is wholly erroneous on the part of the industrial court and the high court.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court s view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
this is what this court had to say in that regard.
the presumption thus is not obligatory because notwithstanding the intentional non production other circumstances may exist upon which such intentional non production may be found to be justifiable on some reasonable grounds.
in the instant case the industrial tribunal did not draw any adverse inference against the appellant.
in any event in this case we have proceeded on the basis that the assertions of the appellants as regard nature of their employment their continuance in the job for a long time are correct and as such the question as to whether any adverse inference should be drawn for alleged production of documents called for would take a back seat.
equal pay for equal work.
for the purpose of invoking the said doctrine the nature of the work and responsibility attached to the post are some of the factors which were bound to be taken into consideration.
furthermore when their services had not been regularized and they had continued on a consolidated pay on ad hoc basis having not undergone the process of regular appointments no direction to give regular pay scale could have been issued by the labour court.
no material was placed before the high court as to the nature of the duties of either categories and it is not possible to hold that the principle of equal pay for equal work is an abstract one.
there shall however be no order as to costs.
appeals dismissed.
