in order to appreciate the issue requiring determination a few relevant facts may be stated.
the respondent m s great eastern shipping company limited is engaged in the business of shipping and allied activities and owns a fleet of tanker vessels for charter including the vessel known as jag praja.
an agreement called the time charter party in legal parlance was entered into between the appellant and the respondent on 6th may1997 for letting on hire vessels for a period of two years from 22nd september1996 to 30th june1997 and from 1st july1997 to 30th june1998on the terms and conditions set out in the said agreement.
however before the charter party was to come to an end on 29th june1998the indian oil corporation limited for short ioc acting as agent of the appellant issued a fax to various ship owners including the respondent herein requesting them to extend the validity of the charter party agreement dated 6th may1997 beyond 30th june1998 for a period of one month from 1st july1998 with option for two further extensions of 15 days each.
the respondent agreed to the said proposal.
accordingly on 29th june1998 an addendum was signed between the parties whereby the validity period of charter party was extended for one month with an option for two further extensions for a period of 15 days each.
the parties are ad idem that the charter party dated 6th may1997 was extended till 31st august1998.
however the oil coordination committee by their fax message dated 26th august1998declined the request of the oil companies including the appellant for further extension of charter party beyond 31st august1998 the said fax message was an internal communication between the oil coordination committee and the oil companies.
in response to the said tender the respondent and other vessel owners submitted their bids.
on 12th october1998the respondent informed the ioc that if all its nine vessels mentioned in the letter are used at a fair and reasonable rate for one year from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 for which the tender had been floated they were agreeable to apply the new agreed rates for use of the said nine vessels from 1st july1998 on 31st october1998.
as such all said and done oil co ordination committee s proposal was not accepted.
admittedly the vessels continued to be chartered by the appellant beyond the date of this letter.
finally it was suggested that we therefore suggest that we sign an agreement with you for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter is finally decided by you under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on an ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
emphasis supplied.
charter hire rate worked out by the committee for vessel jag praja for the period from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 was communicated to the respondent.
in response the respondent while expressing their disappointment with the rate but purportedly in view of their long business relations with the appellant conveyed their acceptance of the proposed rate in respect of each of the vessels named in separate letters all dated 1st.
claims and counter claims were filed before the arbitral tribunal.
however arguments were heard only on the following three issues.
issue no 1 whether the hon ble arbitral tribunal has no jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the dispute between the claimant and the respondent for the period september1998 to august1999.
and as the dispute between the parties related to the period subsequent to 31st.
august1998they had no jurisdiction to decide the reference.
according to the tribunal on and after 1st september1998charter party agreement dated 6th may1997 was superseded by a fresh agreement and a term of the agreement was that the charter hire rate would be determined by the oil co ordination committee of the ioc in nutshell the tribunal was of the view that with the performance original charter party dated 6th may1997 got extinguished.
by the impugned order the learned single judge has set aside the said award inter alia holding that arbitral tribunal has the jurisdiction to adjudicate the disputes between the parties as the vessel continued to be hired by the appellant for the period subsequent to 31st august1998 on the same terms and conditions as were contained in the charter party dated 6th may1997only subject to the revision or modification of the rate of hire to be determined by the oil co ordination committee.
admittedly after 31st august1998re delivery of vessel did not take place and therefore in terms of clause 23the vessel continued to be hired on the same terms and conditions except the term as to the hire charges on which there was disagreement between the parties.
correctness of this order of the high court is questioned in this appeal.
shyam divan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand submitted that notwithstanding the fact that the period fixed originally under the charter party or under the addendum dated 29th june1998 had come to an end the subsequent conduct of the parties goes to show that charter of the vessel by the appellant beyond 31st august1998 continued to be governed by the terms and conditions stipulated in charter party dated 6th may1997 and therefore an arbitration agreement did exist between the parties.
before we proceed to examine the rival stands we may note at the outset that neither the arbitral tribunal nor the high court have gone into the question whether the claim made by the respondent would otherwise fall within the ambit of the arbitration clause in the charter party or not.
therefore the terms of a contract between the parties can be proved not only by their words but also by their conduct.
as noted above after the extended period of charter party dated 6th may1997 had come to an end on 31st august1998.
as noted hereinabove there was no response by the appellant to respondent s letter dated 4th january1999 though it appears that vide their letter of even date the appellant did suggest to the respondent that as a token of formal agreement the said letter may be jointly signed by the charterers and the vessel owners.
admittedly no such agreement was signed between the parties.
the vessel shall continue to be on charter to charterers in direct continuation from 2348 hrs 22 09 1996 to 30 06 1998 the vessel shall be re delivered by charterers to owners on dropping last outward pilot at any port on west coast of india at charterers option.
charterers to give owners 15 days notice to probable port of re delivery.
on a conjoint reading of the said clauses it is plain that the appellant was under an obligation to re deliver the vessel as per the procedure contemplated in the afore noted clauses.
it appears to us that even the question in regard to the effect and consequences of non delivery of the vessel in terms of the cl 4 1 and 23 would by itself be a dispute arising under the said charter party with.
but it was still in existence for some purposes viz the effect of vessel s non re delivery as per the prescribed mechanism and its continued use beyond the stipulated time.
and thus the arbitration clause in the said charter party operated in respect of these and other allied purposes.
in view of the foregoing discussion we do not find any infirmity in the view taken by the high court that charter party dated 6th may1997 had not come to an end by efflux of time and it got extended by the conduct of the parties warranting interference.
having come to the conclusion that an arbitration agreement existed between the parties the question which remains to be considered is whether the disputes between the parties should be referred to the same arbitral tribunal which had come to the conclusion that in the absence of any arbitration agreement it did not have jurisdiction to entertain and try the claims and counter claims.
accordingly we constitute an arbitral tribunal consisting of justice m jagannadha rao presiding arbitratorjustice d p wadhwa and justice s n variava former judges of this court to adjudicate upon the claim counter claim by the parties subject to their consent and such terms and conditions as they may deem fit and proper.
appeal dismissed.
