leave granted.
interpretation of the provisions of s 461b of the trade and merchandise marks act1958 hereinafter called and referred to for the sake of brevity as the said act is involved herein.
first respondent is the registered proprietor of a trade mark field marshal for diesel engines since 1964 bearing no 228867 one m s jain industries got the trade mark field marshal registered under clause 7inter alia for flour mills centrifugal pumps couplings for machines pulleys included in class 7 and valves parts of machines the said registration was renewed for the periods 13 5 1972 and 12 5 1979 13 5 1979 and 12 7 1986 and 13 7 1986 and 12 7 1993 appellant is said to have commenced its business of manufacturing and selling centrifugal pumps also under the mark field marshall.
allegedly on the premise that the first respondent is the proprietor of the said mark by reason of long user and thus acquired a reputation in that behalf a legal notice was issued upon it questioning its right to use the said mark in respect of centrifugal pumps by the appellant laying a claim that it had been using the said mark since 1963.
an ex parte order of injunction was passed on 19 12 1985 against the defendant appellant herein to the following effect.
indisputably during the proceedings in the above suit m s.
indisputably first respondent filed an application under section 4656 and 107 of the act marked as c o no 9 of 1986contending that m s jain industries having not used the trade mark in respect of centrifugal pumps for a period more than five years and one month the mark should be taken off the register.
it claimed user of the said mark since 1963 and sought for rectification of the register by expunging the expression circulation and centrifugal pumps from the specification of goods.
suraj bhan belanganj agra.
ganga ram anil kumar hufsunil kumar and sumitra rani trading as thukral mechanical works railway road sirhind punjab are registered as subsequent proprietors of this mark as from 30th may1986 by virtue of agreement dated 30th may1986 and.
in the said c o no 9 of 1986 filed by the first respondent against m s jain industries despite service of notice nobody appeared on behalf of the defendant 16 1 1987 was the date fixed in the said suit.
appellant s counsel appeared on that date and inter alia contended that presently it was the registered owner of the trade mark which was sought to be cancelled.
in view of that statement a submission was made on behalf of the first respondent that it may be permitted to withdraw the petition with liberty to file a fresh petition on the same cause of action.
mr singh has filed a reply in this petition bringing out that presently he is the registered owner of the trademark which is sought to be cancelled in this petition.
statement of shri k l aggarwal counsel for petitioner without oath.
in view of the submissions of m s thakural mechanical works i may be permitted to withdraw this petition with permission to file a fresh petition on this very cause of action.
against m s jain industries and the dy.
trade mark no 228867 in.
the request is not opposed on behalf of m s thakural mechanical works.
a fresh application was filed by the first respondent.
correctness or otherwise of the said order has not been questioned.
a writ petition was filed there against by the first respondent.
a learned single judge of the delhi high court however refused to stay the operation of the order of the board dated 27 10 2004 an appeal was preferred there against.
the core question which arises for our consideration is as to whether in the aforementioned facts and circumstances of the case the application under s 461b was maintainable.
indisputably the scope of the provisions for removal from register in terms of s 46 and 56 of the act stand on different footings.
whereas s 46 had a limited application s 56 of the act is wider in nature.
concededly cl a of sub s 1 of s 46 is not attracted in the case.
for the purpose of appreciation of the rival contentions we may notice the findings of the board as also the high court.
the board has taken the view that the period of five years and one month will begin to run from the date on which thukral became the proprietor of the trademark that is30th may1986 and therefore the rectification application could have been filed by the appellant only sometime in 1991 opining that an application for rectification against the appellant within a period of seven and a half months from the date of assignment of the trade mark was not maintainable the application was dismissed.
the high court on the other hand opined it was not anybody s case before us that m s jain industries.
the registered proprietor of the trademark used it at all.
if thukral did then it can not be said that there was no bona fide use thereof by its proprietor.
that is m s jain industries.
this appears to be the position at least till 30th may1986 in.
first respondent withdrew the application against m s jain industries.
3 scc 576 1992 indlaw sc 1107 or in the context of cl 22 of art 366 of the constitution as has been held in h h maharajadhiraja.
user of the said mark therefore entails the consequences laid down under cl b of sub s 1 of s 46.
however such an application can be filed only by a person aggrieved.
when the applicant before the board establishes the fact in regard to non user of the mark for a period of more than five years on the part of the registered owner the latter may show that his case falls within the purview of sub s 3 of s 46.
indisputably it would be the registered proprietor.
s 46 is a penal provision.
while we say so we are not oblivious of the fact that trafficking in trade mark is to be discouraged.
a registered proprietor of a trade mark should not be permitted to circumvent the law of user of the trade mark for a long time by assigning the same from time to time.
but then such a case has to be made out.
allegation of trafficking is a serious one.
it must be proved in presence of the person against whom such allegations are made.
at the time of grant of original registration advertisements are issued and objections are called for.
renewal of registration in a sense also is not automatic.
as a person obtains a right on and from the date of registration andor renewal thereof he can ordinarily be deprived of his right unless it is shown that the assignment thereof by his holder was not a bona fide one or had been made by way of camouflage.
in other words the mistake of the predecessor should not be visited with non use of the present registered owner.
cls a and b operate in different fileds.
sub s 3 covers a case falling within cl b and not the cl a thereof.
in kabushiki kaisha toshiba this court relied upon hardie trading ltd anr.
if appellant infringed the right of m s jain industries it was for it to take action there for.
it did not.
first respondent itself accepts that at least immediately prior to the institution of the suit appellant had been using the same.
we are not concerned herein as to since when it had been doing so.
for one reason or the other the said order attained finality.
but it is another thing to say that the appellant could be proceeded against alone for non user of the registered trade mark for a period of more than five years.
consequential amendments have been made to cover services cl 47 of the bill.
such an application may be maintainable in terms of s 56 of the act but strictly not in terms of s 461b thereof and that too in the absence of the original registered proprietor.
the cause of action which permitted the first respondent to file an application for rectification against m s jain industries was non user thereof by it.
its non user and rectification of the register could not in the aforementioned situation have been tagged with the cause of action if any against the appellant.
the board could not while exercising its jurisdiction under s 461bof the act proceeded on the basis of such presumption.
it is not correct that no cause of action survived against jain industries.
both the appellant and the respondent no 1 were the infringers of the right of m s jain industries as it was the registered proprietor of the trade mark in respect of the goods in question namely centrifugal pumps.
as it takes away somebody s right it deserves strict construction.
the right of a registered trade mark is not lost automatically on the expiry of five years and one month.
it does not provide for a sun set law.
whether the registered proprietor of the trade mark had taken recourse to trafficking or not must be determined in an appropriate proceeding.
the principle of purchaser of a property has a duty to make enquiriestherefore cannot apply in a case of this nature.
a title to a trade mark derived on assignment as provided for under the act can not be equated with a defective title acquired in any other property as admittedly on the date of assignment the right of the registered trade mark was not extinguished.
both the findings of the high court which we have noticed hereinbefore are findings on question of law and in that view of the matter the contention of mr sudhir chandra that the merit of the matter is yet to be gone into by the board can not be a ground for ignoring the submissions made at the bar.
in the case of american home products corporation v mac laboratories pvt ltd.
if that be so any registered proprietor could easily defeat an application for rectification by assigning the mark to some other person to have a fresh period of 5 years from the date of assignment and thus effectively frustrate the very object of the provision in s 471a and b further it is to be noted that an assignment is subject to the provisions of the act and any rights vested in any other person see.
s 37 the assignor can not obviously transfer more rights than he himself has to the assignee under the act.
we do not think that the approach of the learned author is entirely correct.
an assigner can transfer only such right which he possesses.
if his title is not extinguished by reason of a provision of a statute for non user of the trade mark for a period of five years any assignment made shall be valid subject to such situation which we have noticed in paragraph 25 supra.
for the views we have taken we are of the opinion that the impugned judgment can not be sustained.
it is set aside accordingly.
the appeal is allowed with costs.
counsel s fee assessed at rs 100000.
appeal allowed.
