the appellant got the trade mark infosys registered in 1987 in classes 16 and 9 in connection with computer stationery computer manuals printed manual for computer instruction and teaching materials computer hardwares computer interface computer peripherals electronics telex interface and in 1988 in class 7 in connection with machine and machine tools and motors not for land vehicles the particulars with reference to the trade mark registered by the appellant are as follows.
infosys technologies limited.
the first respondent is jupiter infosys limited.
the first respondent was incorporated and registered in september 1978 under the name of jupiter agencies pvt.
on october 111996the appellant instituted a suit in the calcutta high court for perpetual injunction inter alia restraining the first respondent from infringing the appellant s mark infosys by using the mark infosys by itself or in combination with other marks in course of its trade.
the ad interim order was confirmed on november 291996.
on september 132000the calcutta high court restrained the department of company affairs and registrar of companies from incorporating any company bearing the name infosys without the permission of the appellant.
in january 2001the appellant filed yet another suit before the high court of judicature at madras for permanent injunction restraining the first respondent from offering shares to the public as claimed in the initial public offer ipo using infosys.
a whether the mark applied for registration was used in respect of the goods for which the mark was registered.
b whether the respondent had a bonafide intention to use the mark applied for under section 18 of the trade and merchandise marks act.
cwhether the mark registered in favour of the respondent is a service mark.
dwhether there is a non use of registered trade mark by the respondent for a period of over 5 years and 1 month.
ewhether the registered trade mark is disentitled for protection in a court of law under section 11e of the trade and merchandise marks act.
g whether the respondent has committed fraud while obtaining registration of the mark and.
hto what further relief.
the 1958 act was repealed by the trade marks act1999 for shortthe 1999 act in terms of section 100 of the 1999 act the three petitions filed by the first respondent before the madras high court for rectification removal of registered trade mark nos 475269475267 and 484837 were transferred to the ipab.
the appellant filed yet another suit being suit no 2115 of 2002 before delhi high court for infringement of trade mark and passing off against the first respondent.
in that suit the appellant also made an application for grant of temporary injunction.
i am of the opinion that in case ex parte ad interim orders are not granted the relief claimed itself may be rendered infructuous.
accordingly it is directed that pending further consideration of the matter after notice for the next date of hearing the defendants are restrained by themselves their directors employees agents andor others acting on its behalf from using the trade mark corporate name infosys or any other mark name deceptively similar trade mark or colourable imitation thereof as a mark andor corporate name or as part of a mark andor business name in respect of goods andor services for publicity on propaganda on websites and or in domain names in any way whatsoever thereby causing infringement of the registered trade mark infosys of the plaintiff in isolation or in combination with words letters numbers their advertisements as part of their corporate name either in isolation or in goods and services or in or by way of any advertisement publicity campaigns etc.
compliance of order xxxix rule 3 cpc within three days.
in that suit an affidavit came to be filed by the first respondent wherein it was stated that the name of the company has been changed from jupiter infosys limited to jupiter international limited and a certificate to that effect has been issued by the registrar of companies kolkata under the companies act1956 and no dispute remains between the parties under the trade mark.
based on this affidavit the suit was partially decreed in favour of the appellant on november 102004.
in 2007however the first respondent filed a suit in the court of additional district judge delhi for setting aside the decree dated november 102004 that suit is said to be pending.
he contended that the first respondent is not shown to have ever traded or intended to trade in any goods covered by the appellant s registrations under classes 7 and 16 and as such the first respondent is not a person aggrieved with regard to the appellant s registrations under these two classes.
as regards class 9 he would submit that in view of the affidavit filed by the first respondent on july 142004 in the court of additional district judge delhi the first respondent ceases to be an aggrieved person on the date of consideration of the rectification application.
learned counsel heavily relied upon two decisions of this court 1 hardie trading ltd anr v.
addisons paint chemicals ltd 2003 11 scc 92 2003 indlaw sc 756 and 2 kabushiki kaisha toshiba v tosiba appliances company ors 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
he contended that the ipab erred in holding that software was a service and the subject registrations were in relation to goods without considering the wide definition of goods provided under section 2g of the 1958 act.
private ltd v.
6 rpc 311.
on the other hand an objection is raised in the written submissions on behalf of the first respondent and reference was made in support of the objection to seven judge bench decision of this court in l chandrakumar v union of india ors 1997 3 scc 261 1997 indlaw sc 2816 that challenge to the order of ipab directly in the appeal before this court under article 136 of the constitution is barred.
in reply to the arguments of learned counsel for the appellant mr vaibhav gaggar learned counsel for the first respondent strenuously urged that the plea of aggrieved person is a new plea and raised substantially for the first time before this court.
he argued that the appellant has not taken the plea of the first respondent not being a person aggrieved with respect to filing of the applications for rectification before the ipab merely urging the plea that the first respondent has no locus standi in the written submissions before the ipab is not sufficient.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in agha hyder hussain anr v.
omar khayyam wineries pvt ltd anr air 1977 mad 166.
1976 indlaw mad 380.
he also placed reliance upon some more decisions viz ritz hotel ltd 1989.
rpc 333philosophy di alberta ferretti 2003 r p c 15.
keystone knitting mills trade mark1929 1 ch.
d 92 and motor terms company pty limited v.
he vehemently contended that goods in classes 79 and 16 for which the appellant obtained registration were never used in the manner contemplated by the 1958 act for almost 30 years and that would show the mala fide intention of the appellant in having the same registered for the purpose of squatting and trafficking.
learned counsel for the first respondent further argued that infosys is not an invented or a coined word the said word is an abbreviation and combination of the words information system the word infosys has been used by various companies abroad as well as within india prior to incorporation of the appellant itself and hence can not be called an invented word.
in this regard he relied upon a decision of the madras high court in nestle s products india.
ltd v.
p thankaraja.
anr air 1978 mad 336 he submitted that appellant is primarily in service industry which is unregistrable under the 1958 act and since the appellant is not trading in the goods in respect of which it is registered it can not be said that the mark of the appellant is distinctive of its goods.
in any case learned counsel would submit that the expression infosys is not descriptive expression.
lastly he submitted that although no cross objections or cross appeal has been filed the first respondent has some grievance with regard to the order of the ipab in not considering the case set up in the rectification removal applications particularly with regard to section 56 of the 1958 act.
having regard to the order that we intend to make we are not persuaded to accept the objection raised on behalf of the first respondent that present appeal preferred directly before this court from the impugned order passed by the ipab is not maintainable and must be dismissed as such.
pertinently the notice was issued in the petitions for special leave to appeal to the respondents on november 12004 in response to the said notice the first respondent filed counter affidavit before this court on march 112005 wherein no specific objection about invocation of jurisdiction of this court directly has been taken.
apart from it on september 122005 after hearing both parties special leave was granted by this court.
in the backdrop of these peculiar facts in our view it is not appropriate to relegate the 17 appellant at this distance of time to challenge the impugned order passed by the ipab in writ petition before the high court.
an applicant shall not be entitled to rely for the purpose of clause b of sub section 1 or for the purposes of sub section 2 on any non use of a trade mark which is shown to have been due to special circumstances in the trade and not to any intention to abandon or not to use the trade mark in relation to the goods to which the application relates.
the position that emerges from the above provisions is this.
we accept the above statement of law.
in hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 2003 11 scc 92this court stated as follows the phrase person aggrieved is a common enough statutory precondition for a valid complaint or appeal.
section 46 deals with the removal of a registered trade mark from the register on the ground of non use.
this section presupposes that the registration which was validly made is liable to be taken off by subsequent non user.
applications under sections 46 and 56 may be made to the registrar who is competent to grant the relief.
but if the ground for rectification is merely based on non user i e under section 46 of the act that is not really on account of any public mischief by way of an incorrect entry.
an applicant must therefore show that in some possible way he may be damaged or injured if the trade mark is allowed to stand and by possible i mean possible in a practical sense and not merely in a fantastic view.
all cases of this kind where the original registration is not illegal or improper ought to be considered as questions of common sense to a certain extent at any rate and i think the applicants ought to show something approaching a sufficient or proper reason for applying to have the trade mark expunged.
addisons application was one under section 46 and the test to determine whether the applicant was a person aggrieved within the meaning of that section should have been the one laid down by romer j in wright case and not the one propounded by the house of lords in the matter of powell s trade mark.
the high court and the joint registrar fell into error in not drawing this distinction.
in the case of hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1this court approved the test applied by romer j in the royal baking powder company v wright crossley and co 1898.
15 rpc 677which has been reproduced in the report.
we respectfully agree.
hardie trading ltd 2003 indlaw sc 756 1 has been followed by this court in a recent decision in the case of kabushiki kaisha toshiba 2008 10 scc 766 2008 indlaw sc 1395.
in our considered view it was.
in our view the grievance of the applicant when he invokes section 461 must not only be taken to have existed on the date of making application but must continue to exist when such application is decided.
if during the pendency of such application the applicant s cause of complaint does not survive or his grievance does not subsist due to his own action or the applicant has waived his right or he has lost his interest for any other reason there may not be any justification for rectification as the registered trade mark can not be said to operate prejudicially to his interest.
appeals allowed.
