accused pathan hussain basha was married to pathan haseena begum now deceased on 23rd june2002 at guntur.
it was an arranged marriage.
at the time of marriage it was promised that a dowry of rs 25000 besides other formalities would be paid by the side of the wife to the husband.
despite such pressure she was not able to get that money from her family.
however upon medical examination by the doctor she was declared brought dead.
thereupon the body was sent for postmortem examination through constable p venkateswara reddy lw 15 lw 17p devdass also took photographs of the scene 3 lw 13dr.
m madhusudana reddy conducted autopsy over the body of the deceased and prepared post mortem certificate giving the cause of death as asphyxia as a result of hanging.
on 16th february2003at about 5 p m.
investigating officer arrested all the three accused persons.
and further a 1 to a 3 are sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life for the offence u s 304 b ipc both the sentences shall run concurrently.
the high court of andhra pradesh vide its judgment dated 26th october2006while allowing the appeal in part convicted accused nos 1 and 2 for the aforementioned offences however acquitted accused no 3namely pathan khadar basha.
first and the foremost we must consider what is the evidence led by the prosecution to bring home the guilt of accused.
accused were charged with offences under sections 498a and 304b of the ipc the fir in the present case was lodged by lw 1who is the father of the deceased.
according to this witness on 23rd january2002the marriage of his daughter was solemnised with accused pathan hussain basha and he had accepted to give rs 25000 in marriage.
he had given only rs 15000 and had agreed to pay rs 10000 after four months.
in the marriage he had also given a gold chain a double bed an iron safe and other items.
he had called his son in law accused no 1to his house as per custom at that point the accused demanded a ceiling fan.
according to this witness also in the beginning they were happy however after some time she used to hear some quarrel between the deceased and the accused persons.
he confirmed the fact that rs 15000 was given at the time of marriage and rs 10000 was to be given within some time which the father of the deceased failed to provide.
from the above evidence it is clear that the dowry demands were being raised by the accused persons persistently from the family of the deceased and for that they even harassed the deceased by beating and abusing her.
the period intervening between the marriage and the death of the deceased is very small.
at this stage it will be appropriate for us to examine as to what are the ingredients of an offence punishable under section 304b of the ipc.
11 alongside insertion of section 304 b in ipc the legislature also introduced section 113 b of the evidence act which lays down when the question as to whether a person has committed the dowry death of a woman and it is shown that soon before her death such woman had been subjected by such person to cruelty or harassment for or in connection with any demand for dowry the court shall presume that such person had caused the dowry death.
12 explanation appended to section.
amongst others lapse of time between the date of marriage and the date of death is also a relevant consideration for the court while examining whether the essential ingredients of the provision are satisfied or not in a given case.
in the case of ashok kumar v state of haryana 2010 12 scc 350 2010 indlaw sc 502this court explained these terms in some elucidation and the effect of the deeming fiction appearing in the section as follows 11 the appellant was charged with an offence under section 304 b of the code.
it is the first criteria which the prosecution must prove.
12 the definition of dowry under s 2 of the act reads as under 2 definition of dowry.
all the expressions used under this section are of a very wide magnitude.
the expression in connection with the marriage even in common parlance and on its plain language has to be understood generally.
at this stage it will be appropriate to refer to certain examples showing what has and has not been treated by the courts as dowry.
again in satvir singh v state of punjab20018 scc 633 2001 indlaw sc 224.
this court held that the word dowry should be any property or valuable given or agreed to be given in connection with the marriage.
the definition of dowry is not restricted to agreement or demand for payment of dowry before and at the time of marriage but even include subsequent demands was the dictum of this court in state of a p v.
we have examined the provisions of s 2 of the act in a very limited sphere to deal with the contentions raised in regard to the applicability of the provisions of section 304 b of the code.
we have already referred to the provisions of section 304 b of the code and the most significant expression used in the section is soon before her death.
but even the rule of strict construction requires that the provisions have to be read in conjunction with other relevant provisions and scheme of the act.
further the interpretation given should be one which would avoid absurd results on the one hand and would further the object and cause of the law so enacted on the other.
16 scc 155 2008 indlaw sc 1962 held that the legislative object in providing such a radius of time by employing the words soon before her death is to emphasise the idea that her death should in all probabilities has been the aftermath of such cruelty or harassment.
in other words there should be a reasonable if not direct nexus between her death and the dowryrelated cruelty or harassment inflicted on her.
however the expression would normally imply that there has to be reasonable time gap between t he cruelty inflicted and the death in question.
however there must be existence of proximate link between the acts of cruelty along with the demand of dowry and the death of the victim.
for want of any specific period the concept of reasonable period would be applicable.
the cruelty and harassment by the husband or any relative could be directly relatable to or in connection with any demand for dowry.
the expression demand for dowry will have to be construed ejusdem generis to the word immediately preceding this expression.
dowry is something which existed in our country for a considerable time and the legislature in its wisdom considered it appropriate to enact the law relating to dowry prohibition so as to ensure that any party to the marriage is not harassed or treated with cruelty for satisfaction of demands in consideration and for subsistence of the marriage.
in other words the rule of law requires a person to be innocent till proved guilty.
the concept of deeming fiction is hardly applicable to the criminal jurisprudence.
in contradistinction to this aspect the legislature has applied the concept of deeming fiction to the provisions of section 304 b where other ingredients of section 304 b are satisfied in that event the husband or all relatives shall be deemed to have caused her death.
once the prosecution proves its case with regard to the basic ingredients of section 304 b the court will presume by deemed fiction of law that the husband or the relatives complained of has caused her death.
applying these principles to the facts of the present case it is clear that the ingredients of section 304b read with section 498a ipc are completely satisfied in the present case.
by a deeming fiction in law the onus shifts on to the accused to prove as to how the deceased died.
it is for the accused to show that the death of the deceased did not result from any cruelty or demand of dowry by the accused persons.
the accused did not care to explain as to how the death of his wife occurred.
denial can not be treated to be the discharge of onus.
there being no rebuttal thereto there is no occasion to interfere in the judgments of the courts under appeal.
accused pathan hussain basha and pathan nazeer abi have rightly been found guilty of the offence by the courts.
consequently we award ten years rigorous imprisonment to the appellants.
the appeals are partially accepted to the extent afore indicated.
appeals partly allowed.
