devendra choubey accused no 4 has filed criminal appeal no 822 of 2012 the appellant mahesh accused no 3 has filed criminal appeal no 867 of 2013 the appellant beenu.
chandra prakash accused no 2 has filed criminal appeal no 589 of 2014 the appellant smt.
shashi tripathi accused no 1 has filed criminal appeal arising out of special leave petition criminal no 3737 of 2014.
the crime was registered.
he deposed in court that on 25 11 2003when he returned home he found servant anil kumar pw 21 was weeping.
bhavna was dead.
after registration of the crime inquest was conducted over the dead body of bhavna on 26 11 2003 post mortem was conducted by dr naresh tiwari and dr m deodhar who gave their report which is marked as exhibit p18 spot map was prepared by the inquiry officer io bloodstained cloth of accused shashi tripathi was taken into possession along with broken bangles bloodstained cement mortar and plain cement mortar were also taken into possession.
chandra prakash were arrested on 29 11 2003 a bloodstained knife was taken into possession.
the accused raju.
devendra choubey was taken into custody on 22 12 2003 and a suzuki motorcycle was also taken into possession.
a test identification was conducted by the executive magistrate in the sub jail bemetara on 13 12 2003 a similar identification parade of raju.
devendra choubey was conducted on 26 12 2003 after his arrest.
a sealed packet containing hair found in the grip of the deceased and another sealed packet containing bloodstained cloth of the deceased were taken into possession vide exhibit p35.
after committal the trial court framed charges u s 302 read with ss 34 and 120b of the ipc the prosecution examined 32 witnesses.
no defence witness was examined after the statements of the accused were recorded u s 313 of the criminal procedure code1973.
according to the prosecution the accused shashi tripathi is the step mother in law of deceased bhavna tripathi.
bhavna was married to her step son jitendra kumar in july2003 shashi tripathi used to be annoyed with bhavna tripathi on account of some domestic dispute.
bhavna was murdered on 25 11 2003 at about 1830 hours in the house where she resided with shashi tripathi.
4 incised wound on lower costal region left of size.
3  cm x 2 cm x 1 cm 5 incised wound on lower costal region right side on right epigestic region of size 3  cm.
cm x cm x  cm 10 incised wound on forearm left hand radial side dorsal aspect on lower 23rd region 11 incised wound on left forearm middle l3rd region radial side and posterior aspect of size 2.
x 1  cm.
incised wound was also present on the right lobe of size 3 cm x 13 cm x 3 cm.
liver kidney and spleen were pale.
he participated in the identification parade which was held in sub jail bemetara and identified the accused persons in the court by touching them.
he lived in the house of shashi didi.
she resided with shashi didi.
he referred to bhavna as bhabhi.
he stated that shashi didi and bhavna sometimes used to quarrel.
the incident occurred in the courtyard and shashi didi was present in the passage.
shashi didi thereafter started shouting.
devendra choubey accused no 4 by paying them money.
it is obvious that accused nos 2 and 4 did not enter the house to commit a robbery and had a single mission namely to kill bhavana.
in fact he even came to the court in the company of a police constable after being served summons at allahabad.
the learned counsel submitted that the evidence of a child witness must be carefully scrutinized before acceptance since a child can be easy prey for tutoring and the court must insist on corroboration from other evidence.
he had no grouse against her neither any ulterior motive in identifying the accused who were not acquainted to him.
in any case the period between the arrest and the identification parade was not large enough to constitute inordinate delay.
the learned counsel for the appellants relied upon the judgment of this court in budhsen and anr.
state of u p 1970 2 scc 128 1970 indlaw sc 136 where this court made the following observations 7 now facts which establish the identity of an accused person are relevant u s 9 of the indian evidence act.
as a general rule the substantive evidence of a witness is a statement made in court.
this serves to satisfy the investigating officers of the bona fides of the prosecution witnesses and also to furnish evidence to corroborate their testimony in court.
identification proceedings in their legal effect amount simply to this that certain persons are brought to jail or some other place and make statements either express or implied that certain individuals whom they point out are persons whom they recognise as having been concerned in the crime.
it is for this reason that the identification parades in this case seem to have been held under the supervision of a magistrate.
those proceeding should not make it impossible for the identifiers who after all have as a rule only fleeting glimpses of the person they are supposed to identify.
generally speaking the magistrate must make a note of every objection raised by an accused at the time of identification and the steps taken by them to ensure fairness to the accused so that the court which is to judge the value of the identification evidence may take them into consideration in the appreciation of that evidence.
the identification to be of value should also be held without much delay.
we however do not see how the observations help the appellants.
in the present case the child witness has been found to be reliable.
suffice it to say that those cases do not create any doubt as regards the conviction in this case.
state of haryana air 1999 sc 1083 1999 indlaw sc 391 and ramashish yadav vs.
state of bihar 1999 8 scc 555 1999 indlaw sc 693.
9 scc 696 2012 indlaw sc 343.
on a careful conspectus of the facts and the law we are of the view that the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of mahesh beyond reasonable doubt.
he was merely seen by the witness as standing outside the house when the witness came home.
there is no reference to a third person in the fir no evidence that he came with the other accused or left with them.
having regard to the role attributed to him and the absence of incriminating factors we find that it is not safe to convict mahesh of the offence of murder with the aid of ss 34 and 120b.
his bail bonds stand cancelled and sureties are discharged.
appeals disposed of.
