they were all alive in december 1924 when lakshminarayana died.
before his death he executed a will on 16th november 1924 the construction of which is in controversy in this appeal.
after your lifetime ramalakshmi ammal our daughter and wife of rama ayyar avergal of melagaram village and her heirs shall enjoy them with absolute rights and powers of alienation such as gift exchange and sale from son to grandson and so on for generations.
as regards the payment of maintenance to be made to chinnanmal alias lakshmi ammal wife of my late son hariharamayyan my wife ranganayaki ammal shall pay the same as she pleases and obtain a release deed.
ramalakshmi died on 25th april 1938 during the lifetime of the widow.
on the 24th july 1945 the widow describing herself as an absolute owner of the properties of her husband sold one of the items of the property to the 2nd defendant for rs 500.
a prayer was made that the widow be restrained from alienating the other properties in her possession.
the defendants pleaded that the plaintiff had no title to maintain the suit that the widow was entitled under the will to an absolute estate or at least to an estate analogous to and not less than a widow s estate that the estate given to ramalakshmi under the will was but a contingent one and she having predeceased the widow no interest in the suit properties devolved on the plaintiff.
the main issue in the suit was whether the widow took under the will an absolute estate or an estate like the hindu widow s estate and whether the daughter s interest therein was in the nature of a contingent remainder or whether she got in the properties a vested interest.
during the pendency of the appeal the widow died on 14th february 1948.
the high court by its judgment under appeal affirmed the decision of the trial judge and maintained his view on the construction of the will.
at one time it was a moot point whether a hindu widow s estate could be created by will it being an estate created by law but it is now settled that a hindu can confer by means of a will oil his widow the same estate which she would get by inheritance.
the court s primary duty in such cases is to ascertain from the language employed by the testator what were his intentions keeping in view the surrounding circumstances his ordinary notions as a hindu in respect to devolution of his property his family relationships etc.
he wished to make his daughter a fresh stock of descent so that her issue male or female may have the benefit of his property.
in express terms he conferred on his daughter powers of alienation byway of gift exchange sale but in sharp contrast to this on his widow he conferred no such powers.
the direction to her was that she should enjoy the entire properties including the outstandings etc.
and these shall thereafter pass to her daughters.
as above pointed out admittedly power of alienation in express terms was not conferred on her.
in our opinion even if that suggestion is accepted that for the limited purposes mentioned in the will the widow could alienate this power would fall far short of the powers that a hindu widow enjoys under hindu law.
it can not be said that a hindu widow can only alienate her husband s estate for payment of debts to meet maintenance charges and for her own maintenance.
we therefore hold that the estate conferred on ranganayaki ammal was more like the limited estate in the english sense of the term than like a full hindu widow s estate in spite of the directions above mentioned.
but she had no power to deal with the corpus of the estate.
and it had to be kept intact for the enjoyment of the daughter.
though the daughter was not entitled to immediate possession of the property it was indicated with certainty that she should get the entire estate at the proper time.
and she thus got an interest in it on the testator s death.
she was given a present right of future enjoyment in the property.
according to jarman jarman on wills the law leans in favour of vesting of estates and the property disposed of belongs to the object of the gift when the will takes effect and we think the daughter got under this will a vested interest in the testator s properties on his death.
the learned counsel in support of his contention drew our attention to a number of decisions of different high courts and contended that the words of this will should be construed in the manner as more or less similar words were construed by the courts in the wills dealt with in those decisions.
a 2 5.
nath prasad 3 pat.
l j 199.
but as regards the immovable property none shall have the lest right of alienation.
they will of course be entitled to enjoy the balance left after payment of rent.
the provisions contained in this will bear no analogy to those we have to construe.
but there were other indications in that will showing that a widow s estate had been given.
the fact that the gift over was a contingent bequest was by itself taken as a sure indication that the preceding bequest was that of a widow s estate.
1 m l j 268.
1936 indlaw mad 236.
under the will there dealt with the widow s was to enjoy the properties and after her lifetime the properties were to be taken in the ratio of three to five by the son s daughter and the daughter s son respectively.
a suit was instituted by the son s daughter for the recovery of possession of her share in one item of property forming part of the estate which had been sold by section the question for decision in that case was whether section was at all entitled to sell anything more than her life interest even for purposes of meeting a necessity binding upon the estate.
varadachari j held that since in the will the gift over to the grand children was of the entire properties and not a mere gift by way of defeasance it had to be held that it indicated that the prior gift in favour of the widow was only of a limited interest.
assuming that it is possible to create a hindu woman s estate not with standing the addition of a gift over the question nevertheless whether that had been done in a given case must depend on the terms of the particular instrument under consideration.
2 m l j 562 were next cited as the will gave her the right to enjoy the income of the estate during her lifetime it was evidently contemplated that she should as provided by the hindu law in the case of a widow be in possession of the estate.
indlaw mad 621 1940.
thereafter they shall pass to my grandson through my daughter.
at page 193 of the report it was observed as follows the question therefore arises did he intend to confer only a life estate or a daughter s estate.
he omits the words during her life with reference to the disposition in favour of the daughter.
that was a case of a government grant on the special terms set out therein and the question arose as to the nature of the grant.
there it was said that the widows of sivaji raja got the gift of a life estate very much resembling the ordinary estate of a hindu widow and with all the incidents of a widow s estate except the liability to be divested but nevertheless a life estate rather than an estate of inheritance.
the question in every case can not be determined merely on the theory that every hindu thinks only about a hindu widow s estate and no more.
he also on the analogy of other wills and the decisions given on their terms wanted a decision on the construction of this will in his favour.
in the first instance he placed reliance on a decision of the madras high court in ratna chetty v narayana swami chetty 19i4 26 m l j 616.
if the two could not agree and live together amicably my wife would pay rs 4000 and separate him.
and then my wife would enjoy all the remaining properties with absolute rights.
this decision only decides that case and is not very relevant in this enquiry.
bhagwati devi v chowdry bholonath thakur 1874 75 2 i a 256.
this will was couched in different language than the will in the present case.
there was a clear prohibition forbidding the widow to make any transfers of the milkiuit estates and the slaves.
and my wife has powers to do in the same way as i have absolute powers to do when i am present and in case of my wife s death my daughter mahalaxmi is owner of the said property after that.
after considering the rival contentions of the parties we are of the opinion that no sufficient grounds have been made out for disturbing the unanimous opinion of the two courts below on the construction of this will.
both the learned counsel eventually conceded that the language used in the will was consistent with the testator s intention of conferring a life estate in the english sense as well as with the intention of conferring a hindu widow s estate.
mr krisbnaswami lyengar on the other hand contended that the absence of any words in the will restricting her powers of alienation and putting a restraint on them suggested a contrary intention and that the daughter s estate was described as coming into being after the estate of the widow and was not conferred on her simultaneously with the widow and this connoted according to the notions of hindus a full hindu widow s estate.
appeal dismissed.
