even so a minimal narration of the facts and a brief consideration of each argument is necessary and we proceed to do so.
while his arguments did not impress us we were touched by his concluding words that he had been born and had grown in an adivasi village in the only brahmin family and in his evening years of life proposed to give a substantial part of the compensation the state would give him for adivasi welfare.
of course when there is joint ownership section 24 stipulates that the compensation shall be determined for the estate as a whole and not separately for each of the shares therein.
the rule making power is vested in the government under section 47 and there is a routine removal of difficulties clause contained in section 50.
against the background of law just projected we may set out shri purohit s points which if we may say so are substantially the same as have been argued by him in revision before the high court with partial success.
as admittedly compensation had not been calculated by the date of vesting the compensation officer lost his statutory jurisdiction to do so.
there was no direction that this report of the d f o should be further subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests.
the calculation made by the chief conservator of forests therefore has no statutory force but could be just a piece of evidence.
a1 is inadmissible in evidence.
3 assuming that in spite of the directions of the court the compensation offi cer is entitled to follow the procedure laid down in section 262bv the expression subject to the approval of the chief conservator of forests does not refer to the appraisement made by the d f o but refers to his appointment.
4 assuming that section 262 b v would have full force what it contemplates is that the appraisement must be made by the d f o and it is subject to the approval by the chief conservator of forests.
but what has happened here is that the chief conservator himself made the appraisement without referring to the appraisement made by the d f o and as such the appraisement made by the chief conservator is invalid.
the report of the chief conservator of forests is also invalid because of the fact that the appraisement is made only with reference to the area of the disputed forests without taking into consideration the density of growth therein.
6 unlike in case of fisheries etc.
8 compensation money should be so calculated that the purchasing power of the amount of compensation to be paid on the date of actual payment will not be less than its purchasing power on the date of vesting and 9 interest should be calculated at not less than 12 per annum from the date of vesting till payment.
the policy of the law of agrarian reform postulates the extinguishment of ancient privileges and cornering of land resources and the socioeconomic yardstick is different from what applies to ordinary purchases of real estate and this is manifest in the special provisions contained in article 31a and article 31b of the constitution.
this gives rationality to the seeming disparity.
holmes once commented it is revolting to have no better reason for a rule of law than that.
the contention is that on the date of vesting which was well over two decades ago the purchasing power of the rupee was much higher than its present value.
the next point in the reverse order is equally unsubstantial and may be disposed of right away.
this provision directly demolishes the contention of the appellant.
indeed if the actual income were to be the foundation for computation of compensation on the premise that not actual income has accrued the compensation might be zero.
the confusion that vitiates the argument is prompted by a circular letter of government regarding non deductibility of income tax due to the state from the amount of compensation lying to the credit of estate holders.
in short section 27 properly construed can not lend itself to the meaning imputed to it by the appellant.
section 262.
gross asset when used with reference to an estate means the aggregate of the rents including all cesses which were payable in respect of the estate for the previous agricultural year b by the raiyats or any other persons cultivating the land other than the land settled with the intermediary or intermediaries under sub s 1 of section 7 and includes.
the compensation officer passed an order adverse to the appellant where upon he filed an appeal to the collector which was rejected.
a second appeal followed before the board of revenue which was dismissed.
the appraisement can be scientifically done by looking to the age of the trees as they stand now.
besides the evidence already on record would be taken into consideration.
no other evidence would be permissible as the state has not chosen to give any other evidence.
but in such a case the materials must be brought to the notice of the petitioners who would be entitled to cross examine the witnesses connected therewith and may give rebutting evidence.
however what followed is interesting though erroneous.
but he pointed out that the forest officer had omitted to include the income from kendu leaves and added that sum to the income from forests.
the compensation officer accepted the report of the chief conservator and made the statutory calculation on that date.
from this narrative what follows is that the chief conservator had substituted his appraisement which was accepted by the statutory tribunal.
having heard the appellant at some length we see no flaw in the high court s order on this aspect of the matter.
it is astonishing that anyone should urge as the appellant did that the date of vesting is the last date by which the calculation of compensation should have been made and since that had not been done the compensation officer had become functus officio in awarding compensation.
before the date of vesting the state never can nor does fix the compensation through the compensation officer in any of the agrarian reform laws and these compensation operations are post statutory exercises.
if the officer had no jurisdiction the land would be gone because of the vesting provision and no compensation would be forthcoming for want of jurisdiction a consequence the appellant never wants.
nor is it right to contend as the appellant did that the compensation officer s jurisdiction was created by the order of remand by the high court.
it follows that after the present second remand the re appraisal of the annual net income can not be done solely by the forest officer without securing the approval of the chief conservator.
certainly the chief conservator can not be ignored by the compensation officer nor can the chief conservator ignore the assessment made by the forest officer and go through an independent exercise.
the integrated process has already been explained by us and will be followed in the proceedings to ensue on remand.
we may make it clear that now that a forest officer has made an appraisement the chief conservator of forests will apply his mind to it and approve it as a whole or with such modifications as he thinks necessary and forward it to the compensation officer.
this will among other things save time.
in this context it is perhaps not irrelevant to remember that the appellant a freedom fighter is an 83 year old man and at this stage of his life the state should show commisseration not merely in quickly disposing of the proceedings but also in not being cantankerous in awarding and disbursing the balance compensation.
