to decide this facts must be referred to.
bharat neon signs hereinafter referred to as respondent no 2.
we are concerned in this appeal with only one of the premises which was involved in suit no 553 of 1969 it is not in dispute and it never was that the premises was being used by bharat neon signs firm being the defendant no 2 in the original suit.
at the time of the institution of the suit the defendants nos 2 to 5 were admittedly the partners.
the said partnership deed records six persons who were to run the business in manufacturing and selling bharat neon signs tubes.
however the document is silent as to where the business was started.
on or about 24th of october1960.
another partnership deed being exhibit 69 came to be executed among the six persons and the father of the appellant girdharlal.
the document is exhibit 69 and is signed by the father of the appellant and the appellant himself also.
it may be mentioned that the partnership deed exhibit 114 was executed by six persons and at that stage the appellant or his father were not partners in the firm.
but thereafter when the partnership deed exhibit 69 was executed the appellant and his father joined the firm with an agreement to share profits only and their share was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee.
september1961 at this time the share of the appellant was fixed at 0 03 paise in a rupee to share the profits only.
april1965 this last partnership deed was executed by the appellant and original defendants.
nos 34 and 5.
for this proposition see the decision of the gujarat high court in the case of mehta jagjivan vanechand v doshi vanechand harakhchand and others.
a i r 1972 gujarat 6 1970 indlaw guj 68 thakkar j of the gujarat high court as the learned judge then was held that the mere fact that a tenant entered into a partnership and allowed the premises being used for the benefit of partnership does not constitute assignment or subletting in favour of the partnership firm entitling a landlord to recover possession.
indlaw sc 748.
the trial court in the instant appeal held that there was subletting.
it was further alleged by the landlord that the appellant had unlawfully sublet the major part of the premises in question of both the suits to defendant nos 2 to 5 in the original suit and these defendants were running business in partnership for manufacturing of neon signs in the name of bharat neon signs.
he has stated further that the suit premises were to be used for business and he could use it for any business and he joined in partnership with defendants nos 2 to 5 somewhere in 1961 to prepare neon signs and the defendants nos 2 to 5 were his partners and doing business in the suit premises.
there was an appeal filed from that decree and that appeal was also dismissed and disposed of affirming the decree for the dissolution of the partnership inter se between the parties being the partners of the said firm.
as mentioned hereinbefore the learned trial judge consolidated both the suits and in the instant suit being no 553 of 1969 with which this appeal is concerned it was held by the learned trial judge that there was unlawful subletting.
the partnership deeds were there the appellant was not to share in the losses.
section 6 of the said act reiterates that in determining whether a group of persons is or is not a firm or whether a person is or is not a partner in a firm regard shall be had to the real relation between the parties as shown by all relevant facts taken together.
the agreement must be to share profits of business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
all these tests were borne in mind by the court of small causes bombay in the appeal from the decision of the learned trial judge.
the appellate court had considered the partnership deeds.
the deeds gave the appellant the right to share the profits and made him agent for certain limited purposes of the firm and there was evidence that the partnership deeds were acted upon.
all these factors were present before the court of small causes.
the first partnership deed which is exhibit 114 is dated 13th october1960 it recited that the partnership firm should be presently started at ahmedabad and the same should later be started in another city.
exhibit 69 at page 136 of volume ii of the paper book is a partnership deed wherein girdharlal the father of the appellant no 1 and the appellant no 1 joined as partners.
all the work had been done by some of the partners of which appellants were not parties and that they had to do the said work as per instructions of the other partners.
the relevant portion of the partnership deed reads as follows to wit the parties of the first to sixth parts out of us deceased khristi girdharbhai chimanlal and shah virchand keshavji had jointly started the business of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes in partnership in ahmedabad from 4 10 1960in the name and style of bharat neon signs.
1 the entire work of our partnership has to be carried out in the name of bharat neon signs.
2 the work to be carried out by our partnership is of manufacturing and selling neon signs tubes and of obtaining orders therefore.
3 whatever moneys that may be required to be invested in our partnership are to be invested by the parties of the first second third fourth and seventh parts out of us and the interest at the rate of 712 per cent per annum has to be paid for the moneys that may be invested in this partnership.
the ambit and power of revision generally and in particular with respect to the provisions with which we are concerned have from time to time come up for consideration by this court.
this court in hari shankar v rao girdhari lal chowdhury1962 1 suppl.
the high court may at any time call for the record of any case under this act for the purpose of satisfying itself that a decision made therein is according to law and may pass such order in relation thereto as it thinks fit.
this court emphasised that the distinction between an appeal and revision is a real one.
a right to appeal carries with it right of re heating on law as well as fact.
this court was of the view that what the high court could see is that there has been no miscarriage of justice and that the decision was according to law in the sense mentioned.
in that case the question whether the appellant was legally married no finding was necessary in the eviction suit.
in phiroze bamanji desai v chandrakant m patel ors 1974 3 scr 267 1974 indlaw sc 282 the question involved was whether there was reasonable and bona fide requirement of premises for personal use and occupation as also the question of greater hardship under the bombay rent act and the ambit and scope of the power of section 293 of the said act with which we are concerned came up for consideration.
1961 indlaw sc 157 supra bhagwati j observed that the ambit of section 351 of the delhi ajmer rent control act which fell for consideration in hari shanker s case 1961 indlaw sc 157 supra was the same as section 293 of the bombay rent act and therefore he expressed the opinion that the high court could interfere only if there was miscarriage of justice due to mistake of law.
we must take note of a decision in the case of m s kasturbhai ramchand panchal brothers and others v firm of mohanlal nathubhai and others air 1969 gujarat 110 1967 indlaw guj 57upon which the high court had placed great reliance in the judgment under appeal.
there the learned judge relying on section 292 of the said act held that the revisional power with which the high court was vested under section 292 was not merely in the nature of jurisdictional control.
he dealt with the human problem under section 132 of bombay rent act considering the relative hardships of the landlord and the tenant and to arrive at a just solution he was of the opinion that the court should have such wide field.
as we read the power the high court must ensure that the principles of law have been correctly borne in mind.
we must however guard ourselves against permitting in the guise of revision substitution of one view where two views are possible and the court of small causes has taken a particular view.
if a possible view has been taken the high court would be exceeding its jurisdiction to substitute its own view with that the courts below because it considers it to be a better view.
1966the gujarat high court after dealing with the gujarat amendment act xviii of 1965 observed that the legislature has not intended to equate the ambit of the power with the one exercised in an appeal.
the authority vested in the high court under the amendment still remained only in the domain of the jurisdiction and power of revision and no further.
the amending provision therefore only related to procedure and not to any rights of the parties.
indlaw sc 244 observed that where lower courts applied their minds properly in deciding a matter under section 132 of the bombay rent act the high court could not substitute its own finding for the one reached by the courts below on a reappraisal of evidence under section 292 of the act as substituted by the gujarat act 18 of 1965 this court reiterated that although the high court had wider power than that which could be exercised under section 115 of c p c yet its revisional power could only be exercised for a limited purpose with a view to satisfying itself that the decision was according to law.
he also referred to section 4 of the partnership act about the principles of partnership namely1 there must be agreement entered into by all the persons concerned 2 the agreement must be to share the profits of a business and 3 the business must be carried on by all or any of the persons concerned acting for all.
such a view was not an impossible one or a perverse one.
if that was so there was nothing that could be clone about such a view within the ambit and scope of the power of section 292 of the rent act.
madras 182subba rao j as the learned chief justice then was held that there can not be a subletting unless the lessee parted with legal possession.
and it was a possible view to take.
the suit for possession is accordingly dismissed.
appeal allowed.
