10 years ri and a fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 307149 ipc 2 years ri for the offence under section 324149 ipc and life imprisonment and fine of rs 5000 each for the offence under section 3 of tada in default of payment of fine on each of the counts the appellants were to undergo further ri for two years each.
according to the prosecution case on 11th august1990 at about 3 00 p m anna shety band patte mukesh ramesh and prakash band patte had gone to the vrindavan video parlour for watching a movie.
the accused a 6a 10 and a 11 alongwith one other person were also present at the video parlour.
there was an altercation between the accused and the complainant party when the leg of kaka dombe a 11 dashed against the leg of anna shety band patte.
the accused party left the video parlour threatening each other.
all the injured persons were admitted to the hospital.
on the basis of the said report an fir for offences under section 302307149147148 ipc was registered vide cr no 101 of 1990 at about 6 00 p m the inquest on the dead body of popat was conducted and the body was sent for post mortem examination.
an auto rickshaw bearing registration no mwq 5624 belonging to manik bhende gavali was found abandoned in a damaged condition with broken glasses.
on a disclosure statement made by a 11 before the police and the panches under section 27 of the evidence act and on his pointing out a sword was recovered from the field at korti where it lay buried.
a 10 also made a disclosure statement under section 27 of the evidence act to the effect that he had buried a sword behind yamai tukai temple and could get it recovered.
the blood samples of bajrang pw 14 and baban karpe pw 9 were similarly collected.
after completion of the investigation two charge sheets arising out of crime no 10190 and crime no 10290 were filed before the designated court.
during the pendency of the two charge sheets the addl.
at the trial the prosecution alleged that the accused party with an intent to commit terror in the wadar community had committed the murder of popat and injured pw 9 and pw 14by using lethal weapons and had thereby committed terror in the wadar community and thus committed an offence under section 3 of tada besides the other offences as already noticed.
p c was one of total denial and false implication.
according to a 2a 3a 5a 6 and a 7 they had been identified by pw 9during the identification parade at the instance of the police.
that the incident arose out of a petty altercation between a 11 and his three companions with pw 10 and his three companions at the video parlour and later on led in the homicidal death of popat band patte on 11 august 1990 and injuries to pw9 and pw14 was neither disputed before the learned designated court nor before us.
pw 22we find that the deceased had four incised injuries which had caused extensive damage to his internal organs also.
3 verticle incised wound 5 x 1 x 1 cms.
pw 9 was examined by dr khiste pw 22 who noticed the following two injuries on his person 1 transverse superficial incised wound 10x12 cm on posterior of left knee in popliteal.
2 abraded contusion below right knee and front of right leg5 x 5 cm.
transverse lacerated would on occipital region3 x 1 cm.
bone deep.
2 multiple abraded contusion all over the back.
the trial court for the purposes of consideration of the evidence divided the prosecution case into three parts namely i the incident at vrindavan video parlour ii incident near jagdamba hotel and iii the incident at the math.
we do not find any force in the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that since mohan lal pw 19who runs the video parlour has not fully supported the prosecution version regarding the cause of altercation at the video parlour the genesis of the occurrence gets shrouded in doubt.
pw 19 was declared hostile by the prosecution and was cross examined by the addl.
we find from a careful analysis of the evidence that the testimony of pw9 to pw 15 regarding the incident at the video parlour is cogent and trustworthy and nothing has been brought out during the cross examination of these witnesses which may cast any doubt about the correctness of the version given by them regarding the incident at the video parlour.
to connect the accused with the incidents near the jagdamba hotel and the math the prosecution has examined pw3pw4pw9pw10pw11pw12pw13 and pw14 besides pw7pw20 and pw21 the last three witnesses however turned hostile at the trial and were cross examined by the addl.
from the testimony of pw9it stands established that while mukesh pw 12 was narrating the incident which had taken place at the video parlour the appellants alongwith 78 other persons arrived in a jeep and two auto rickshaws armed with swords satturs and sticks and opened the assault on the prosecution witnesses and that a 11 and his two associates assaulted pw 14 with swords.
an identification parade had been held by shri shrikant chimanaji jahagirdar pw 32executive magistrate.
so far as other accused are concerned none of the prosecution witnesses ascribed any role to a 2a 3 and a 12 and even though pw 15 deposed at the trial about the presence of a 4a 6 and a 7 and stated that they were present with the accused party but the trial court for good and sufficient reasons found that his testimony as regards their presence in the unlawful assembly had not received trustworthy corroboration from any other prosecution evidence.
baban karpe pw 9himself an injured witness failed to identify a 10 at the time of the identification parade held by pw 32though he identified a 10 later on in the court during the trial.
the appellants other than a10 were as already noticed identified by various prosecution witnesses at the identification parade held by pw 32the executive magistrate also.
the designated court after considering the evidence of the first incident and the manner of assault on the deceased and pw 9 and pw 14came to the conclusion that the appellants alongwith some others had intended to create terror in a section of the people wadar community and with that intention had assaulted pw 14the deceased and pw9 by lethal weapons and were therefore guilty of committing an offence under section 3 tada.
the learned trial court appears to have ignored to take into consideration the essential requirements for establishing an offence under section 3 of tada.
state of maharashtra.
and others 1994 4 scc602.
1994 indlaw sc 1706 this court opined that the criminal activity in order to invoke tada must be committed with the requisite intention as contemplated by section 31 of the act by use of such weapons as have been enumerated therein and which cause or are likely to result in the commission of offences as mentioned in that section.
thus keeping in view the background in which the occurrence took place namely the altercation at the video parlour which has a great relevance to determine the applicability of section 3 tada we are of the opinion that the finding of the designated court that the appellants have committed an offence punishable under section 3 tada is clearly erroneous.
in fairness to the learned counsel for the state mr madhav reddy sr advocate we must also record that he conceded that in the facts and circumstances of the case and keeping in view the law laid down by the constitution bench in kartar singh s case 1994.
appellants no 1 a 52 a 83 a 9 and.
5 a 11 had alongwith the deceased accused a 1 and some others about whose identity there has been some doubt formed an unlawful assembly and in furtherance of the common object of that assembly committed the murder of popat deceased besides causing injuries to pw9 and pw14.
in the result the appeal succeeds insofar as a 10 appellant no 4 is concerned.
he shall be released from custody forthwith if not required in any other case.
the conviction and sentence of appellants no 123 and 5 for the offence under section 3 tada is also set aside but their conviction and sentence for the other offences as recorded by the designated court is upheld and to that extent their appeals fail.
19 appeal 1 notwithstanding anything contained in the code an appeal shall lie as a matter of right from any judgment sentence or order not being an interlocutory order of a designated court to the supreme court both on facts and on law.
2 except as aforesaid no appeal or revision shall lie to any court from any judgment sentence or order including an interlocutory order of a designated court.
a bare perusal of the above section shows that an appeal against the judgment sentence or order of the designated court except an interlocutory order shall lie on facts and on law to the supreme court and that no appeal or revision shall lie to any other court.
in the face of this express provision there is no scope to urge that the appeal may be transferred to the high court because of the acquittal of the appellants for the offence punishable under section 3 tada by us.
in a case where the designated court finds that no offence under tada is made out it is open to the said court to transfer the case to the regular criminal court under section 18 tada but once the charge is framed and the case is tried by the designated court an appeal against conviction sentence or acquittal lies only to the supreme court and to no other court.
under section 12 of tada the designated court has the jurisdiction not only to try the cases under tada but also to try offences under the indian penal code if the offence under tada is connected with such other offences.
the transfer of the appeal to the high court after hearing the appeal on merits and finding that section 3 of tada on the basis of the evidence led by the prosecution was not made out is neither desirable nor proper nor permissible let alone justified.
the submission of the learned counsel is thus devoid of merits and is consequently rejected.
