a petition was filed under article 226 of the constitution by respondent no 1 seeking for a writ of mandamus to treat the members of the respondent union who are employees working in the canteen of the appellants factory as employees of the appellant and for grant of monetary and other consequential benefits.
he therefore held that when a public duty is called upon to be discharged by a private management a writ of mandamus would lie and could be issued under article 226 of the constitution.
therefore when that work is got done through somebody else by providing the necessary infrastructure and other facilities when the personnel did not change though the contractors changed from time to time he held that they become employees of the appellant.
the division bench referred to their decision in rakesh gupta vs hyderabad stock exchange ltd hyderabad ors.
302that a writ in the nature of mandamus certiorari and prohibition are recognised as public law remedies and are not available to enforce private law rights.
however noticing that the expression any person or authority used in article 226 of the constitution should not be confined only to statutory authorities and instrumentalities of state but would cover any other person or body performing public duty.
the form of the body concerned is not very much relevant.
on that basis the division bench of the high court dismissed the writ appeal.
hence this appeal.
1989 2 scc 691 1989.
in that background it was observed that if the rights are purely of a private character no mandamus could be issued and also if the management of the college were purely a private body with no public duty mandamus would not lie.
in that case the respondent was managing the affiliated college to which public money is paid as government aid which played a major role in the control maintenance and working of educational institutions.
in de smith woolf and jowells judicial review of administrative action5th edn.
2 the principles of judicial review prima facie govern the activities of bodies performing public functions.
however not all decisions taken by bodies in the course of their public functions are the subject matter of judicial review.
in such a case that branch of the law and its remedies should and normally will be applied and b where there is a contract between the litigants.
thus where a special method of resolving disputes such as arbitration or resolution by private or domestic tribunals has been agreed by the parties expressly or by necessary implicationthat regime and not judicial review will normally govern the dispute.
the high court has relied very strongly on the decision of a learned single judge in t gattaiahs case wherein it was stated that a writ may lie under article 226 of the constitution against a company incorporated under the companies act1956 as it is permissible to issue a writ against any person.
prima facie therefore a private person or an incorporated company can not be taken out of the sweep and the contemplation of article 226 of the constitution.
that decision does not take note of the fact as to the nature of the functions that a person or an incorporated company should be performing to attract judicial review under article 226 of the constitution.
in anadi muktas case this court examined the various aspects and the distinction between an authority and a person and after analysis of the decisions referred in that regard came to the conclusion that it is only in the circumstances when the authority or the person performs a public function or discharges a public duty article 226 of the constitution can be invoked.
in such cases public duty is owed to the public in general and not specific to any person or group of persons.
further the damage that would be caused in not observing them is immense.
shramik sena ors.
19996 scc.
439 1999 indlaw sc 513referred to the decisions in parimal chandra rahas case reserve bank of india vs workmen1996.
3 scc 267and m m r khan vs union of india1990 supp.
thereafter this court further examined whether the material on record would show that the workmen are employees of the management for all purposes and adopted some of the tests as follows.
the canteen has been there since the inception of the appellants factory.
the premises furniture fixture fuel electricity utensils etc have been provided for by the appellant.
no costs.
civil appeal nos 653397 653497.
in these appeals on a reference made on the question whether certain persons employed in the canteen should be treated as employees of the appellant and if so in what category they are to be fitted in and to what wages they are entitled to the industrial tribunal hyderabadhereinafter referred to as the tribunal inquired into the matter.
the contributions like esi provident fund etc had also been categorically specified to be provided by the appellant and esi code for the permanent establishment and for the present workmen was the same that after the evidence was tendered by the workmen the appellant got the code changed and the appellant transferred the workmen from one place to another and that the amount to be surrendered by way of unpaid salaries had to be remitted back to the management.
the tribunal held that no other material is required to hold them to be employees of the appellant.
in those circumstances the tribunal passed an award that these workmen should be treated as employees of the appellant and they are entitled to payment of appropriate scales and designations in terms of ex.
against this award a writ petition was filed before the high court.
it is contended that under the petroleum rules framed under the petroleum act1934there are certain hazardous areas where there can not be a canteen as no fire furnace source of heat or light capable of igniting inflammable vapours shall be allowed except in the firing spaces or stills and boilers.
in the absence of such material we find no substance in this contention.
