the state of manipur had not framed any recruitment rules for appointment inter alia in the revenue department and in particular the field staff thereof.
the said appointments were made on temporary basis.
2 further they are posted at the places indicate against their names 3 the expenditure is debitable under appropriate heads of accounts of the departments offices concerned.
an inquiry was therefore made to find out the authority which had issued the said offers of appointments.
imphal the 12th jan.
1998 sub submission of report.
dated 6th january1998 regarding the alleged appointment of ad hoc regular appointment to the post of lambus mandols.
etc of.
shri robert shaiza was instructed to take care.
i therefore deny making of such appointments.
on the other hand md.
a r khan secretary revenue has made many appointments of mandols process servers zilladars in the recent months against which i have been complaining that the secretary revenue has no power or authority to make any appointments of field staff as per rules provided under m l r act1960 in this regard i have apprised the matter to the honourable minister revenue already and also informed the chief secretary manipur explaining that the secretary revenue can not make such appointments of field staffs even if he wanted to do so all the relevant files should have been routed through the undersigned so that the same may be brought to the notice of the honourable minister revenue his action has created lots of misunderstanding and confusion.
he has been making false and wrong allegations against the commissioner revenue and putting him false position.
submitted for information and consideration.
sd 12198 annayok j tayeng.
govt of manipur minister revenue.
in civil appeal arising out of slp c no 19375 19376 of 2005the respondents were appointed on ad hoc basis for a period of six months.
i also issued appointment order under my signature.
com rev dated 11 9 97 annexure a1 to the writ petition appointing 3 persons to the post of mandol and no 11497 com rev.
verified that the above statements are true to the best of my knowledge and no part of it is false.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on kendriya vidyalaya sangathan and others v ajay kumar das and others 2002 4 scc 503 2002 indlaw sc 287.
it was argued that the question as to whether appointments were made without the knowledge of the department or for that matter whether any record was available there for was of not much significance as in effect and substance they lead to the same inference and in that view of the matter the decision of this court in mohinder singh gill 1977 indlaw sc 53 supra was not attracted.
s b sanyal learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents on the other hand would submit that the question as to whether the appointments of the respondents were nullities or not having not been raised before the high court this court should not permit the appellants to raise the said contention at this stage.
the learned counsel would submit that even in a case of this nature it was incumbent upon the appellants to comply with the principles of natural justice.
strong reliance in this behalf has been placed on parshotam lal dhingra v union of india.
1991 supp 1 scc 331 1991 indlaw sc 904 and kumari shrilekha vidyarthi and others v state of u p and others 1991 1 scc 212 1990 indlaw sc 463.
the state while offering appointments having regard to the constitutional scheme adumbrated in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india must comply with its constitutional duty subject to just and proper exceptions to give an opportunity of being considered for appointment to all persons eligible there for.
the offers of appointment issued in favour of the respondents herein were cancelled inter alia on the premise that the same had been done without the knowledge of the revenue department of the state.
as noticed hereinbefore an inquiry had been made wherein the said shri tayeng the then commissioner of revenue stated that no such appointment had been made to his knowledge.
the state proceeded on the said basis.
the offers of appointment were cancelled not on the ground that some irregularities had been committed in the process of recruitment but on the ground that they had been non est in the eye of law.
the purported appointment letters were fake ones.
with a view to establish their legal rights to enable the high court to issue a writ of mandamus the respondents were obligated to establish that the appointments had been made upon following the constitutional mandate adumbrated in arts 14 and 16 of the constitution of india.
he was only a cadre controlling authority.
he was merely put a chairman of the dpc for non ministerial post of the revenue department.
the respondents therefore in our opinion were not entitled to hold the posts.
in a case of this nature where the facts are admitted the principles of natural justice were not required to be complied with particularly when the same would result in futility.
it was held 34 in our opinion the wide sweep of art 14 undoubtedly takes within its fold the impugned circular issued by the state of u p in exercise of its executive power irrespective of the precise nature of appointment of the government counsel in the districts and the other rights contractual or statutory which the appointees may have.
35 it is now too well settled that every state action in order to survive must not be susceptible to the vice of arbitrariness which is the crux of art 14 of the constitution and basic to the rule of law the system which governs us.
arbitrariness is the very negation of the rule of law.
this distinction between the state and a private individual in the field of contract has to be borne in the mind.
we in the facts and circumstances of this case do not see any arbitrariness on the part of the state in its action directing cancellation of appointments.
having been selected on merit and for no other consideration they are entitled to continue in their office for the period of the contract of their engagement and they can be removed only for valid reasons.
those expressions it is urged have been taken from the service rules where they were used to denote the three major punishments and it is submitted that those expressions should be read and understood in the same sense and treated as words of article in dhirender singh and others v state of haryana and others 1997 2 scc 712 1996 indlaw sc 1725termination of an order of promotion in favour of the appellant was not interfered with by this court as the same had not been approved by the dig being the competent authority.
chief constable of the thames valley police forces ex p cotton by giving six reasons see also his article should public law remedies be discretionary.
1991 pl64.
foulkes craig and others say that the court can not prejudge what is to be decided by the decision making authority de smith says courts have not yet committed themselves to any one view though discretion is always with the court.
wade says that while futile writs may not be issued a distinction has to be made according to the nature of the decision.
in kendriya vidyalaya sangathan 2002 indlaw sc 287 suprait was held it is clear that if after the termination of services of the said dr k c rakesh the orders of appointment are issued such orders are not valid.
in r s garg v state of u p and others 2006 6 scc 430 2006 indlaw sc 801it was stated a discretionary power as is well known can not be exercised in an arbitrary manner.
they are set aside accordingly.
appeal allowed.
