aggrieved by the decision of customs excise and gold control appellate tribunal cegat dated 11 4 2000the appellants assessee have come by way of civil appeals under section 35l of the central excise act1944.
appellants were engaged in the manufacture of biscuits classifiable under sub heading 1905 11 of the central excise tariff.
the above show cause notices were issued by the department demanding differential duty for the period april 1994 to june 1994 amounting to rs 374948 plus short paid duty for the period april 1995 to may 1995 amounting to rs 92992 the said demand was based on an agreement detected by the department.
kay aar biscuits p.
it was stated that m s kay aar biscuits p ltd was using the aforestated trade mark meghraj for the manufacture of biscuits.
rich food products p.
ltd to use its trade mark for the manufacture of wafers alone.
at this stage it may be noted that the appellants herein claim to have started manufacture of biscuits in 1991 the biscuits were sold in wrapper mentioning the name of the appellantsm s.
aggrieved by the decision of the adjudicating authority the assessee preferred appeals to the commissioner a the said appeals were rejected on the ground that the appellants were using the brand name meghraj of another manufacturer m s kay aar biscuits p ltd on their products biscuits and therefore they were not entitled to the benefit of exemption under notification no 193 ce as amended.
and therefore they were entitled to exemption.
according to the commissioner athe appellants used the trade name meghraj in the form of a logo which was printed on the wrapper.
this contention was rejected by the commissioner a on the ground that under the notification no 193 ce as amended exemption was not available to the specified goods bearing brand name or trade name registered or not of another person.
accordingly the commissioner a dismissed the appeals.
the orders of the commissioner a have been confirmed by order dated 11 4 2000 passed by cegat.
by order dated 8 12 2000cegat rejected the above rectification application made by the appellants.
the object of the notification therefore was to help the ssi units and thereby increased industrial production.
the same is quoted hereinbelow.
no explanation has been given as to why madan verma has not been examined by the appellants.
in the case of pahwa chemicals pvt.
ltd v.
commissioner of central excise delhi 2005 189.
applying the ratio of the above judgment to the present case it is clear that grant of registration certificate under the trade marks act will not automatically provide benefit of exemption to the ssi unit.
elt 225 2004 indlaw sc 996scthis court held that the assessee will not be entitled to the benefit of exemption if it uses on goods in question same similar brand name with intention of indicating a connection with the goods of the assessee and such other person or uses the name in such manner that it would indicate such connection.
applying the above test to the facts of the present case madan verma is a common director in the two companies.
however in that affidavit he has not stated as to on what basis in the agreement of 23 11 89 signed by him he had declared that m s ltd is the owner of the registered trade mark meghraj.
this argument is based on the concept of abandonment.
discontinuation of business in respect of a product does not necessarily amount to abandonment.
abandonment of the trade mark has to be proved by the appellants in the present case.
these are considerations which are relevant in disputes arising under the trade marks act.
however since retrospective nature of the registration certificate dated 30 6 2000 is repeatedly being raised in this court we would like to examine the case law in this regard.
the trade marks act1999 has been enacted to amend and consolidate the law relating to trade marks to provide for registration and better protection of trade marks and for prevention of the use of fraudulent marks.
u s 28 of the trade marks act1999registration gives to the registered proprietor of the trade mark the exclusive right to the use of the trade mark in relation to the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered and to obtain relief in respect of infringement of the trade mark in the manner provided by the trade marks act.
then came the english trade marks act of 1875which was substituted later by later acts.
particularly the following a proprietary right in a mark sought to be registered can be obtained in a number of ways.
a person may become a proprietor of a trade mark in diverse ways.
several authorities were cited and were considered and principles deduced and relied upon in that behalf.
in our opinion it is not necessary in this case to go into details about facts in the various decided cases dealing with importer s marks.
we have already reached a conclusion that so far as this country is concerned degoumois co have totally disclaimed any interest in the proprietorship of that mark for watches etc.
there is no evidence that that mark was used by anyone else in this country before the applicant in connection with that class of goods.
emphasis supplied.
on reading the above quoted paragraphs from the above judgment with which we agree it is clear that the effect of making the registration certificate applicable from retrospective date is based on the principle of deemed equivalence to public user of such mark.
this deeming fiction can not be extended to the excise law.
air 1965 bombay 35 1961 indlaw mum 91it has been held vide paras 27 and 30 that the trade marks act merely facilitates the mode of proof.
apparently in such a case there is no question of infringement of any right of property in a trade mark for which any relief is sought nor is there any question of passing off so that it might be necessary to enter into questions of nicety as regards whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark.
as already stated by me while referring to the observations of sir john romily it is not really necessary for me to decide in this case as to whether there could or could not be any property in a trade mark for the purpose of deciding this case.
there was no other basis on which those courts could give any relief to the plaintiffs in such cases and for the purpose of such relief the courts of equity did not require the plaintiff to prove that his mark by any length of user was associated in the minds of the public with his goods.
all that was necessary for the plaintiff to prove was that he had used that mark in respect of his particular type of goods.
as a matter of fact the statute enabled a person to have registered a mark not only which he had been using but also a mark which he proposed to use.
the latter type of mark would evidently refer to a distinctive mark a mark which does not directly describe the nature or quality of the goods to which it is attached.
49 bom lr 52.
air 1947 bom 445chagla j as he then was observed in this connection as follows the question is whether in india the trade marks act of 1940 has made any change in the legal rights of the owner of a trade mark.
to my mind it is clear that even prior to the passing of this act the owner of a trade mark could maintain an action for the infringement of a trade mark and that action could only be maintained on the assumption that he was the owner of the trade mark and he had a proprietary right in the trade mark.
sub cl i of s 20 of the trade marks act itself assumes and implies that such a right existed in the owner of a trade mark because it says that the unregistered holder of a trade mark can maintain a suit for the infringement of a trade mark provided that the trade mark was in use before february.
251937and an application for registration had been made and refused.
as regards the question whether there could be any property in a trade mark the learned judge further observed on the same page as follows again turning to s 54 of the specific relief act which deals with cases when a perpetual injunction may be granted the explanation to that section lays down that for the purpose of that section a trade mark is property.
to summarise therefore a trader acquires a right of property in a distinctive mark merely by using it upon or in connection with his goods irrespective of the length of such user and the extent of his trade.
as between two competitors who are each desirous of adopting such a markit is to use familiar language entirely a question of who gets there first.
rang 343.
registration itself does not create a trade mark.
mr shah however contended that by an agreement exhibit f made between the respondent company and kipre and co private ltd in 1951.
now once again turning to the provisions of s 18 sub section iit is clear that only a person claiming to be the proprietor of a trade mark used by him or proposed to be used by him could make an application to the registrar for the registration thereof.
according to this provision not only a person should claim to be the proprietor of a trade mark but he should prove that he had used it as such proprietor on his goods.
applying the principle of deemed equivalence we may clarify that if the ssi unit wrongly affixes a trade mark of another person be it registered or not or if it uses the trade mark of an ineligible person then such default would not be eliminated by the above principle of deemed equivalence embodied in s 28 of the trade marks act1999 as that principle is based on a deeming fiction which fiction is confined only to the provisions of the trade marks act.
305 2006 indlaw sc 546 in that matter a show cause notice was issued calling upon the assessee to show cause why the exemption be not denied to the assessee.
in the circumstances the judgment of this court in the case of bigen industries 2006 indlaw sc 546 supra has no application.
accordingly the civil appeals stand dismissed with no order as to costs.
appeals dismissed.
