an agreement called the time charter party in legal parlance was entered into between the appellant and the respondent on 6th may1997 for letting on hire vessels for a period of two years from 22nd september1996 to 30th june1997 and from 1st july1997 to 30th june1998on the terms and conditions set out in the said agreement.
the respondent agreed to the said proposal.
accordingly on 29th june1998 an addendum was signed between the parties whereby the validity period of charter party was extended for one month with an option for two further extensions for a period of 15 days each.
however the oil coordination committee by their fax message dated 26th august1998declined the request of the oil companies including the appellant for further extension of charter party beyond 31st august1998 the said fax message was an internal communication between the oil coordination committee and the oil companies.
thereafter in september1998the ioc for and on behalf of the oil industry floated a fresh tender for carriage of petroleum products along the indian coast on time charter basis for a period of one year commencing from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999on the terms and conditions set out in the tender document.
it seems that being aggrieved of the decision of the ioc to invite revised price bids after opening of the sealed tenders one of the bidders filed a writ petition in the bombay high court questioning the said decision.
it appears that pending finalization of a new charter party for the period commencing 1st september1998certain meetings took place between the oil companies and the ship owners including the respondent herein.
on 12th october1998the respondent informed the ioc that if all its nine vessels mentioned in the letter are used at a fair and reasonable rate for one year from 1st september1998 to 31st august1999 for which the tender had been floated they were agreeable to apply the new agreed rates for use of the said nine vessels from 1st july1998 on 31st october1998.
nevertheless some suggestions to resolve the controversy were given.
in the alternative it was suggested by the respondent that the charter period be extended by six months on the existing terms and conditions at a mutually discussed time charter rate.
admittedly the vessels continued to be chartered by the appellant beyond the date of this letter.
it was only on 31st december1998 when the ioc issued a fax to the respondent enclosing draft letter regarding charter party agreement to be signed between the charterers and owners with minor modification if necessaryrequesting the respondent to sign as per proposal by the 4th january1999on which date the respondent expressed its disinclination stating in reply fax that as per usual practice pending finalization of new charter the existing terms and conditions of the charter party continue to apply.
finally it was suggested that we therefore suggest that we sign an agreement with you for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter is finally decided by you under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on an ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
emphasis supplied.
claims and counter claims were filed before the arbitral tribunal.
on the basis of the pleadings of the parties the arbitral tribunal framed as many as eight issues.
in respect of the vessel jag praja for the reasons stated in para 1 of the written statement.
august1998they had no jurisdiction to decide the reference.
the learned tribunal found issue no 2 in the negative and issue no 5 in the affirmative.
according to the tribunal on and after 1st september1998charter party agreement dated 6th may1997 was superseded by a fresh agreement and a term of the agreement was that the charter hire rate would be determined by the oil co ordination committee of the ioc in nutshell the tribunal was of the view that with the performance original charter party dated 6th may1997 got extinguished.
by the impugned order the learned single judge has set aside the said award inter alia holding that arbitral tribunal has the jurisdiction to adjudicate the disputes between the parties as the vessel continued to be hired by the appellant for the period subsequent to 31st august1998 on the same terms and conditions as were contained in the charter party dated 6th may1997only subject to the revision or modification of the rate of hire to be determined by the oil co ordination committee.
correctness of this order of the high court is questioned in this appeal.
shyam divan learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent on the other hand submitted that notwithstanding the fact that the period fixed originally under the charter party or under the addendum dated 29th june1998 had come to an end the subsequent conduct of the parties goes to show that charter of the vessel by the appellant beyond 31st august1998 continued to be governed by the terms and conditions stipulated in charter party dated 6th may1997 and therefore an arbitration agreement did exist between the parties.
it was also submitted that the view taken by the high court being a plausible view interference in exercise of extra ordinary jurisdiction u art 136 of the constitution is unwarranted.
in our view the principle of sub silentio is clearly attracted in the present case.
as noted above after the extended period of charter party dated 6th may1997 had come to an end on 31st august1998.
it was suggested that an agreement may be signed between them for the period from 1st september1998 until the matter was finally decided by the appellant under the tender on the existing terms and conditions with the charter hire being provisionally paid on ad hoc basis at 90 of the rate which was prevailing under the existing charter party.
as noted hereinabove there was no response by the appellant to respondent s letter dated 4th january1999 though it appears that vide their letter of even date the appellant did suggest to the respondent that as a token of formal agreement the said letter may be jointly signed by the charterers and the vessel owners.
admittedly no such agreement was signed between the parties.
indubitably there was no further exchange of correspondence between the parties during the year.
4 2 charterers to load last three cargoes clean and re deliver the vessel in clean condition.
final voyage should the vessel be on her voyage towards the port of redelivery at the time of payment of hire is due payment of hire shall be made for such length of time as owners and charterers may agree upon as being estimated time necessary to complete the voyage less any disbursements made or expected to be made or expenses incurred or expected to be incurred by charterers for owners account and less the estimated amount of bunker fuel remaining at the termination of the voyage and when the vessel is redelivered any overpayment shall be refunded by the owners or underpayment paid by charterers.
notwithstanding the provisions of cl 4 hereof should the vessel be upon voyage at the expiry of the period of this charter charterers shall have the use of vessel at the same rate and conditions for such extended time as may be necessary for the completion of the round voyage on which she is engaged and her return to a port of redelivery as provided by the charter.
however the arbitral tribunal answered the said issue against the respondent.
respect.
but it was still in existence for some purposes viz the effect of vessel s non re delivery as per the prescribed mechanism and its continued use beyond the stipulated time.
and thus the arbitration clause in the said charter party operated in respect of these and other allied purposes.
we feel that it would be proper and expedient to constitute a fresh arbitral tribunal.
it goes without saying that the learned tribunal shall deal with the matter uninfluenced by any observations in this order on the respective stands of the parties.
the registry is directed to communicate this order to the learned members of the arbitral tribunal to enable them to enter upon the reference and decide the matter as expeditiously as practicable.
appeal dismissed.
