facts giving rise to the present appeal may be stated first so as to enable us to appreciate the arguments raised by the parties more effectively.
on 19 04 1988 between 8 30 p m and 8 45 p m satish narayan sawant the appellant accused No 1 along with two other accused persons and also with two delinquent children allegedly formed an unlawful assembly and that in furtherance of the said common object stabbed one rauji dulba sawant the deceased and also assaulted baby dulba sawant pw 1 ashok dulba sawant pw 2 kunda rauji sawant pw 8 and laxmi dulba sawant pw 18 who are the sister brother wife and mother respectively of the deceased.
thereafter pw 21 along with p i dsa gave a call to the inmates of the house to open the door and on hearing the call one lady opened the door.
after reaching the police station a complaint which is marked as exhibit pw 1 a was lodged by pw 1 in which it was alleged that pw 1 pw 8 pw 18 the deceased rauji and his brother narayan were residing in one house in banastari and they used to share a common kitchen between them.
while the said religious ceremony was being performed accused No 2 started uttering insults while standing in the kitchen.
accused No 3 told the appellant not to do anything in the ceremony and insulted the family members of rauji.
as soon as the deceased switched off the light the appellant came from the room and started abusing rauji.
accused No 3 had then lit a kerosene lamp and brought the same in the hall.
according to pw 1 in order to avoid the assault by all of them they went to bulcao balcony.
at that time all the accused persons were in the balcony.
at that time the appellant who was holding the knife in his hand handed over the same to accused No 3 by which she assaulted pw 8 but pw 8 caught the knife in her hand which caused injury to her right palm.
at that time pw 2 came there and questioned the accused persons as to what they were doing whereupon the appellant and accused No 2 started assaulting pw 2 also.
it was also alleged that the other juvenile offender sharmila brought a cement block shaped like an elephant trunk which she handed over to accused No 3 with which accused No 3 started assaulting rauji.
pw 1 however intervened and removed the said piece of cement block from the hand of accused No 3 but.
accused No 3 then picked up one stone and tried to throw it on rauji by saying that she was going to kill him with that stone.
the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
after completion of the arguments the trial court reserved the verdict.
the trial court passed an order on 04 08 1998 acquitting all the accused persons from the offences under sections 302 323 143 147 and 149 of ipc.
being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order of acquittal the state filed an appeal in the high court against accused nos.
1 to 3.
accused No 1 section 302 ipc and accused nos.
2 and 3 were held guilty of an offence punishable section 323 read with section 34 of the ipc.
mr r sundaravardhan learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant very forcefully submitted that the high court was not justified in setting aside the order of acquittal passed in respect of the present appellant.
he submitted that although the incident in question had taken place at about 8 45 p m the same came to be reported to the police at 3 00 a m he also submitted that the police officer pw 21 who received the information about the incident started investigation without recording either any general diary for short g d entry or the fir and therefore the fir which has been proved in the trial court is hit by the provisions of section 162 of the criminal procedure code for short the crpc.
a scuffle started between the nephew and the uncle in which the accused persons also received injuries and therefore the right of private defence of the appellant was available and in that view of the matter the order of conviction and sentence is liable to be set aside.
he next submitted that there was no evidence on record as to when the fir reached the magistrate and that none of the courts below considered the said aspect.
302 ipc.
1 2 8 and 18 is convincing and reliable but so far as the evidence of pw 4 is concerned the high court has made an observation that he is not a reliable witness.
1 2 8 and 18 and on the basis thereof submitted that their evidence clearly prove and establish the role of the appellant herein in stabbing the deceased with the knife which he had brought from the other room with the intention of killing the deceased and therefore it is a clear case of conviction.
section.
in the light of the aforesaid submissions of the counsel appearing for the parties we have given our in depth consideration to the facts of the present case.
the deceased tried to put off the light of one particular room at which the appellant and other accused persons became annoyed and the appellant switched on the light which was again switched off by the deceased.
at this the deceased became annoyed and the appellant removed the fuse of the electricity which act of his plunged the entire house into darkness.
there was indeed some scuffle between the parties during the course of which accused No 1 received simple injuries and the deceased died of the two stab injuries inflicted by the present appellant.
2 8 18 and the complainant herself pw 1.
therefore he proceeded to survey the place of occurrence with the help of torches.
he stated that he made preliminary enquiry and brought yashoda and her two daughters to the police station and sent two other officers in search of accused nos 1 and 2 who were not found in the house.
he also recovered the knife at the instance of accused sharmila which he seized.
and he was medically examined.
p c he next submitted that no evidence having been led by the prosecution about the time when the fir reached the magistrate therefore there is also violation of the provisions of section 157 of the cr.
what is investigation is not defined in the code of criminal procedure but in h n rishbud and inder singh v state of delhi 1954 indlaw sc 14 this court has described the procedure for investigation as follows thus under the code investigation consists generally of the following steps 1 proceeding to the spot 2 ascertainment of the facts and circumstances of the case 3 discovery and arrest of the suspected offender 4 collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence which may consist of a the examination of various persons including the accused and the reduction of their statements into writing if the officer thinks fit b the search of places of seizure of things considered necessary for the investigation and to be produced at the trial and 5 formation of the opinion as to whether on the material collected there is a case to place the accused before a magistrate for trial and if so taking the necessary steps for the same by the filing of a charge sheet section this court however has not said that if a police officer takes merely one or two of the steps indicated by it what he has done must necessarily be regarded as investigation.
investigation in substance means collection of evidence relating to the commission of the offence.
emphasis underlined.
after reaching the police station and at the request of pw 1 the fir was recorded at 3 00 a m in the morning.
besides the fact of his going to the place of occurrence would not amount to making an investigation.
there is no evidence to show that at that point of time pw 21 seized any articles or interrogated any witnesses or took any other action in initiating or in furtherance of investigation.
in animireddy venkata ramana and others v public prosecutor high court of andhra pradesh 2008 5 scc 368 2008 indlaw sc 354 this court while considering a similar case observed as follows 10.
in any event the destination of the bus was the said village and they were bound to take the bus thereat.
the investigating officer was also informed.
a report to that effect might have been noted in the general diary but the same could not have been treated to be an fir.
an information received in regard to commission of a cognizable offence is not required to be preceded by a first information report.
if some incident had taken place in a bus the officers of road transport corporation also could not ignore the same.
even assuming that pw 21 the investigating officer could have entered the aforesaid information received from psi of panaji police station in the general diary yet they said entry could not have been held or treated to be an fir.
the place of occurrence was in total darkness and even the persons belonging to the complainant side were not available therefore bringing them to the police station where there was sufficient light and recording the complaint at 3 00 a m can not in any manner cast any doubt on the veracity of the prosecution case.
from the evidence on record it does not appear to us that any suggestion was given to the said witness to the effect that the copy of the fir was not sent or that it was dispatched late which if given would have given an opportunity to the witness to afford some explanation or to show as to when the fir was sent to and received by the magistrate.
in that view of the matter we do not agree with the counsel appearing for the appellant that delay in transmitting the fir to the magistrate stands proved in the present case.
1 2 8 and 18 as eye witnesses to the occurrence.
these eye witnesses have stated that the incident had happened initially in the hall where there was some light for accused No 3 has brought a lamp to the hall and apart from that another lamp was also burning which was attached to the ceiling.
blood was found by the police on the wall of the verandah and in the courtyard.
besides all the aforesaid eye witnesses were inmates of the house and they would know as to who had given the blows for they specifically stated that initially the appellant did not have the knife in his hand but when the deceased and others went to the balcony then he went inside the house and brought a knife with which he gave stab injuries to the deceased which became fatal and as a result of which the deceased died while he was being taken to the hospital.
the truth or otherwise of the evidence has to be weighed pragmatically.
conviction can be made on the basis of such evidence.
he further stated that the death was caused due to hemorrhage and shock as a result of stab injury.
there is no doubt that four injuries are indicated in the postmortem report shown to have been received by the deceased but the fact that the deceased was given stab injuries by the appellant with the help of a knife brought by him from inside the house is clearly established from the ocular evidence.
all the contentions raised by learned counsel appearing for the appellant were considered by us in the light of evidence on record.
and we find that none of the aforesaid submissions has any basis.
there is cogent and reliable evidence on record to prove and establish that the accused has committed the act of stabbing as a result of which the deceased had died.
before dwelling further into the factual matrix of the case on the basis of which the high court convicted the appellant section 302 ipc it would be useful to briefly recapitulate the law on the point.
section 300 ipc further provides for the exceptions which will constitute culpable homicide not amounting to murder and punishable section when and if there is intent and knowledge then the same would be a case of section 304.
all murder is culpable homicide but not vice versa.
for the purpose of fixing punishment proportionate to the gravity of this generic offence the code practically recognises three degrees of culpable homicide.
b of section 299 does not postulate any such knowledge on the part of the offender.
3 of section 300 is one of degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury.
to put it more broadly it is the degree of probability of death which determines whether a culpable homicide is of the gravest medium or the lowest degree.
1958 indlaw sc 82 vivian bose j speaking for the court explained the meaning and scope of cl.
once these three elements are proved to be present the enquiry proceeds further and fourthly it must be proved that the injury of the type just described made up of the three elements set out above was sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
this part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferential and has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.
thirdly it must be proved that there was an intention to inflict that particular bodily injury that is to say that it was not accidental or unintentional or that some other kind of injury was intended.
but if there is nothing beyond the injury and the fact that the appellant inflicted it the only possible inference is that he intended to inflict it.
under clause thirdly of section 300 ipc culpable homicide is murder if both the following conditions are satisfied i e a that the act which causes death is done with the intention of causing death or is done with the intention of causing a bodily injury and b that the injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death.
4 of section 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the act causing death.
4 of section 300 would be applicable where the knowledge of the offender as to the probability of death of a person or persons in general as distinguished from a particular person or persons being caused from his imminently dangerous act approximates to a practical certainty.
such knowledge on the part of the offender must be of the highest degree of probability the act having been committed by the offender without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.
in most cases their observance will facilitate the task of the court.
but sometimes the facts are so intertwined and the second and the third stages so telescoped into each that it may not be convenient to give a separate treatment to the matters involved in the second and third stages.
the aforesaid principles have been consistently followed by this court in several decisions.
2009 indlaw sc 859.
as already noted it is quite clear from the record that there was an altercation preceding the incident.
so it was only injury No 1 which was fatal in nature.
accordingly we convict the appellant under section 304 part ii of ipc and sentence him to undergo imprisonment for a period of 7 years.
the appeal stands disposed of in terms of aforesaid order.
appeal disposed of.
