after migration the family took shelter at refugee camp of pimpri pune in maharashtra.
in view of enactment of displaced persons compensation and rehabilitation act1954 by the union of india the immovable properties left behind by muslims who had migrated to pakistan were acquired and the same was distributed to displaced persons as a compensation pool.
accordingly father of the appellant was allotted a land admeasuring 2 acres 5 gunthas bearing revenue survey nos 351 and 1182 situated at village lonavala taluka maval district pune.
hajrabi haji yusuf on 4 6 1949 however this transaction was cancelled by the collector and custodian of evacuee property on 17 4 1949 as per section 8i of the evacuee properties act and these lands were accordingly entered as evacuee property by the tahsildar maval on 26 10 1949 it appears that these survey numbers were also given c t s no 129130 a130 b and 133.
the area of this cts nos were as under.
however further inquiry as directed by the sdo was to be conducted.
since the collector noticed on complaint that the orders of the collector has been bypassed or surpassed by the subordinate revenue officers the collector by order dated 12 7 1999 directed the sdo to take these mutations namely mutation entry no 2377 and 2394 in revision and therefore the sub divisional officer maval division has taken these mutations in revision bearing rts revision no 12 of 1999 the said revision was decided by the sub divisional officer at maval on 28 1 2000 and those mutations were cancelled.
being aggrieved by the order passed in the said revision respondent no 2 lalwani preferred rts appeal no 81 of 2000 and the respondent no 3 genu kadu preferred rts appeal no 114 of 2000 both.
collector pune dismissed the said appeals and confirmed the order of the sub divisional officer maval.
aggrieved by the said order of the additional collector respondent no 2 preferred rts revision no 330 of 2001 under section 257 of maharashtra land revenue code1966 before the additional commissioner pune division pune.
respondent no 2 challenged this order of the additional commissioner by filing the proceeding rts 3402 pra kra 309 l 6 by way of second revision before the revenue minister for state and the said proceeding was decided by the minister for state on 18 10 2002 the revenue minister allowed the said proceeding and set aside the orders passed by the sub divisional officer maval dated 28 1 2000order dated 28 5 2001 of additional collector pune and of additional commissioner dated 22 11 2001and thus restored the position as reflected by the mutation entries nos 1836 and 2377 and 2394 thus all the entries in favour of the respondents were protected and maintained by the order of the state minister for revenue.
it was again decided by the sub divisional officer on 29 10 1987 and the said mutation was set aside.
they were decided on 28 5 2001 as against that the rts revision no 330 of 2001 was preferred.
however said revision rts 330 of 2001 is tenable since the appeals as provided under section 247 and 249 intervene in between the revisional orders passed by the sub divisional officer and the commissioner.
thus viewed from any angle we find that the state minister for revenue when he entertained the matter state minister for revenue was possessed of jurisdiction under section 257 of the maharashtra land revenue code and therefore the order passed by him under the said authority is within his jurisdiction power and competence.
referring the decision of the bombay high court in the case of sambappa vs state of maharashtra 2002 scc on line bombay 1222learned counsel submitted that when the sub divisional officer additional collector and additional commissioner had concurrently recorded finding in favour of the appellant by observing that the revenue record is not in consonance with the factual aspect and they have directed to correct the revenue entries in such a case the second revisional authority exceeded its jurisdiction in entertaining the said application and interfering with the finding of fact.
ahmadi learned senior counsel further submitted that a request was made to the high court not to enter into the merit of the case and to confine itself to the question whether a second revision was at all maintainable in the light of the ratio in harishankar s case 1961.
srivastava then contended that the high court correctly analysed and appreciated the scheme of the code vis a vis judicial review in revenue matters.
state of rajasthan and others2005.
2 scc 334 2005 indlaw sc 6 for the proposition that there can be a second revision under the same provision of the statute.
section 231 defines the revenue officer as under 2 31 revenue officer means every officer of any rank whatsoever appointed under any of the provisions of this code and employed in or about the business of the land revenue or of the surveys assessment accounts or records connected therewith.
6 revenue officers in division.
7 revenue officers in district 1the state government shall appoint a collector for each district including the city of bombay who shall be in charge of the revenue administration there of and a tahsildar for each taluka who shall be the chief officer entrusted with the local revenue administration of a taluka.
the state government may appoint one or more additional collectors and in each district including the city of bombay and so many assistant collectors and deputy collectors with such designations such as firstsecondsuper numeraryetc.
assistants as may be expressed in the order of their appointmentone or more naib tahsildars in a taluka and one or more additional tahsidars or naib tahsildars therein and such other persons having such designations to assist the revenue officers as it may deem expedient.
3 subject to the general orders of the state government the collector may place any assistant or deputy collector in charge of one more sub divisions of a district or may himself retain charge thereof.
section 11 of the code is worth to be quoted herein.
1 all revenue officers shall be subordinate to the state government.
2 unless the state government directs otherwise all revenue officers in a division shall be subordinate to the commissioner and all revenue officers 2in a district including the city of bombay shall be subordinate to the collector.
from reading of the aforesaid provisions it is manifest that the state government makes appointment of the revenue officers including the commissioner and the chief controlling authorities in the revenue matters.
section 11 provides that all revenue officers shall be subordinate to the state government.
it is therefore clear that in revenue matters the state government is the supreme revenue authority.
in the present case we noticed the scheme of the code in the matters of hearing and disposal of appeals revision and review.
in the absence of any express provisions of this code or of any law for the time being in force to the contrary an appeal shall lie from any decision or order passed by a revenue or survey officer specified in column 1 of the schedule e under this code or any other law for the time being in force to the officer specified in column 2 of that schedule whether or not such decision or order may itself have been passed on appeal from the decision of order of the officer specified in column 1 of the said schedule.
provided that in no case the number of appeals shall exceed two 2 when on account of promotion of change of designation an appeal against any decision or order lies under this section to the same officer who has passed the decision or order appealed against the appeal shall lie to such other officer competent to decide the appeal to whom it may be transferred under the provisions of this code.
the schedule preferred to in section 227 mentions the authorities before whom appeal would lie.
the schedule appended to the code is as follows schedule e see section 247.
it uses the word or.
further in view of the fact that state government itself appoints the revenue officers including the commissioner under the scheme of the code and all revenue officers are subordinate to the state government as per section 11 of the act and even the chief controlling authority in all matters connected with the land revenue in his division is vested with the commissioner they are subject to the superintendence direction and control of the state government as provided under section 5 of the code.
the aforesaid provision makes it clear that even if the decision is considered to be final the state government s power to call for and examine the record and proceedings of subordinate officers is saved.
in other words the state government in exercise of its revisional as well as general power of superintendence and control can call for any record of proceedings and consider the legality and propriety of the orders passed by the revenue officers under section 247 or 257 of the code.
a fair reading of sections 257 and 259 suggests that if revisional powers are exercised by a revenue officer having jurisdiction to do so further revisional power can be exercised by the superior officer or by the state government.
if one authority exercises revisional power the other authority logically can not have exercised such power.
the power of the government and the registrar in terms of section 128 excludes matters which are covered by section 125 i e revision by the tribunal.
before parting with the order we must make it clear that in view of the request made by the appellant before the high court not to enter into the merit of the case since the party may prosecute their remedies in the civil court for adjudication we have not expressed any opinion with regard to the merit of the case of the parties.
