this is an appeal on a certificate article 1331 of the constitution from a judgment and decree passed by the appellate bench of the high court of calcutta.
on the 10th june 1891 he made and published his last will and testament whereby he dedicated to this family idol.
he appointed his two sons rajendra and jogendra executors of ms will and provided that his second wife golap sundari and the two sons rajendra and jogendra should perform the seva of the deity and on their death their heirs and successors would be entitled to perform the seva.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
41 and 401 grey street and appointed his brother jogendra the sole executor thereof.
probate of the will of dwarka nath was also obtained by jogendra on the 31st august 1909.
the said suit was compromised and on the 24th november 1910 a consent decree was passed whereby jogendra and golap sundari gave up their rights to the sevayatship and bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra became the sevaits of the idol a portion of the premises.
41 grey street allotted to the branch of rajendra was subsequently numbered 41 a grey street.
jogendra died on the 5th august 1911 leaving a will whereby he appointed his widow sushilabala the executrix thereof.
disputes arose between bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra the sons of rajendra and one kedar nath ghosh was appointed arbitrator to settle those disputes.
the arbitrator made his award dated the 12th october 1920 whereby he allotted premises No 41 a grey street exclusively to nagendra as his share of the family properties.
on the 23rd february 1927 nagendra executed a deed of settlement of the said premises by which he appointed his wife labanyalata and his wife s brother samarendra nath mitter trustees to carry out the directions therein contained and in pursuance of the deed of settlement he gave up possession of the said premises in favour of the trustees.
nagendra died in june 1931 and the said premises were ultimately put up for sale in execution of the mortgage decree and were purchased on the 9th december 1936 by hari charan dutt.
hari pada.
on the 19th july 1948 the family idol of dwarka nath sree sree iswar sridhar jew by its next friend debabrata ghosh the son of nagendra filed the suit out of which the present appeal arises against the appellants as also against susilabala and the two sons of jogendra by her amongst others for a declaration that the premises nos.
41 a and 402 a grey street were its absolute properties and for possession thereof for a declaration that the consent decree dated the 24th november 1910 in suit No 969 of 1909 and the award dated the 12th october 1920 and the dealings made by the heirs of jogendra.
written statements were filed by the appellants and by susilabala and the two sons of jogendra denying the claims of the idol and contending inter alia that there was no valid or absolute dedication of the suit properties i to the idol and that the said premises had been respectively acquired by them by adverse possession and that the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
the learned judge however dismissed the suit of the idol in regard to the premises.
the idol filed on the 20th november 1950 cross objections against the decree for rs 19000 and interest thereon as also the dismissal of the suit in regard to the premises.
the appeal and the cross objections came on for hearing before harries c j and section n banerjee j who delivered judgment on the 5th march 1951 dismissing the said appeal and allowing the cross objection in regard to rs 19000 filed by the idol against the appellants.
on the 22nd november 1951 the idol applied to the high court for leave to file cross objections against that part of the judgment and decree of the high court which dismissed its claims with regard to the premises no 402 a grey street.
by an order made by this court on the 24th may 1953 the petition of the idol for filing cross objections in this court was allowed to be treated as a petition for special leave to appeal against that part of the decree which was against it subject to any question as to limitation.
41 grey street made by dwarka nath under the terms of his will was a partial dedication and that his sons rajendra and jogendra and his widow golap sundari who were appointed sevayats of the idol were competent to deal with premises.
it was further contended that nagendra by virtue of the award dated the 12th october 1920 claimed to be absolutely entitled to the premises.
grey street and that his possession of the said premises thereafter became adverse which adverse possession continued for upwards of 12 years extinguishing the right of the idol to the said premises.
3 of the said will provided with a view to provide a permanent habitation for the said deity i do by means of this will dedicate the aforesaid immovable property the said house.
grey street No 401.
of the said sri sri issur sridhar jew salagram sila thakur and on the death of my said two sons their representatives successors and heirs shall successively perform the sheba in the aforesaid manner and the executors appointed by this will of mine having got the said two properties registered in the calcutta municipality in the name of the said sri sri issur sridhar jew thakur shall pay the municipal taxes etc.
they are to be registered in the municipal records in the name of the deity the municipal bills have got to be taken also in his name and none of the testator s representatives heirs successors executors administrators or assigns is to have any manner of interest in or right to the said premises or is to be competent to give away or effect sale mortgage etc.
of the said premises.
the first contention of the appellants therefore fails and we hold that the dedication of the premises.
41 grey street to the idol was an absolute dedication.
regards the second contention viz the adverse possession of nagendra it is to be noted that under the terms of cl 3 of the will of dwarka nath the representatives successors and heirs of his two sons rajendra and jogendra were successively to perform the seva in the manner therein mentioned and nagendra was one of the heirs and legal representatives of rajendra.
appeal dismissed.
