while he was posted at surat as deputy engineer he was transferred to ukai subdivision under the order of the superintending engineer dated 29th march1974 pursuant to the order of transfer he was relieved from his duties at surat on 30th march1974 to enable him to join at ukai.
meanwhile the chief engineer by his order dated 27th may1974 discharged the respondent from service with effect from 31st march1974 in accordance with service regulation no 113 the respondent challenged the validity of the order of his discharge from service by means of a writ petition under article 226 of the constitution before the high court of gujarat.
a learned single judge of the high court quashed the order of termination on the findings that the order of discharge was issued m violation of the basic principles of natural justice as no opportunity was afforded to the respondent before discharging him from services under regulation no 113.
the learned single judge granted a declaration in respondent s favour holding the order void and illegal but having regard to recalcitrant attitude of the appellant and his continued conduct of disobedience of the orders of his superior authorities he refused to grant consequential reliefs regarding reinstatement or payment of back wages.
the respondent as well as the appellant board both preferred letters patent appeals against the order of learned single judge.
a division bench of the high court dismissed the appeal preferred by the appellants but it allowed the respondent s appeal.
the division bench upheld the order of the learned single judge holding the order of discharge illegal and void but it set aside the order of the learned single judge refusing to grant consequential relief instead it directed the appellants to reinstate the respondent and to treat him in service without any break in service and to grant him benefits of increments seniority and promotion to which he may be entitled under the rules.
we expressed our view in the court and suggested to mr vimal dave counsel for the respondent that if he agreed the original writ petition of the respondent could be dismissed without directing him to refund the amount which he had already been paid by the appellants in pursuance to the orders of the high court and of this court as during the pendency of the appeal.
we refused to accede to his request as oral heating had already been completed and the matter had been adjourned only to enable the respondent s counsel to obtain instructions.
we are constrained to note that instead of utilizing the opportunity granted to him for filing written submissions the respondent has misused adjournments for the purposes of raising frivolous objections for getting the case transferred to some other bench.
in the instant case on the conclusion of the oral hearing we had expressed our opinion on 28 1 1988 in the open court that we were inclined to allow the appeal and set aside the order of the high court and dismiss the writ petition but taking a sympathetic view we requested sh.
the respondent s prayer is accordingly rejected and since oral hearing has already been completed and in spite of several adjournments respondent failed to appear before the court or to file the written submissions we proceed to decide the case on merits.
the above rule provides that if an employee of the gujarat electricity board continues to remain absent from duty or overstays the period of sanctioned leave and in spite of warning he fails to return to duty he renders himself liable to be discharged summarily from service without complying with the procedure prescribed for taking disciplinary action under the gujarat electricity board conduct discipline and appeal procedure.
the object and purpose of giving warning is to remind the delinquent employee that if he continues to be absent from duty he would be liable to action under regulation 113 and to afford him an opportunity to make amends by joining his duty.
the division bench of the high court held that no warning as contemplated by service regulation no 113 had been issued to the respondent nor he had been afforded any opportunity of showing cause before the impugned order of discharge was passed and consequently the order of discharge was null and void being contrary to service regulation no 113 itself.
on march 291974 the superintending engineer of the board issued the order transferring the respondent from surat to ukai on 30 3 1974 the respondent was relieved from surat and directed to join his duty at ukai but the respondent did not join his duty at the new place of posting.
instead he made a representation to the additional chief engineer on 8 4 1974 after the transfer order.
the transfer order was not stayed and as the respondent did not join his duties he continued to be absent without sanction of any leave.
in this situation the superintending engineer by his letter dated 18th april1974 directed the respondent to show cause as to why action should not be taken against him for disobeying the order of transfer and also for unauthorised absence from duty in breach of service regulation.
sub transfer from surat to ukai.
there is no dispute that the respondent received the aforesaid letter as he sent a reply to the superintending engineer on april 201974a copy of which was annexed as annexure j by the petitioner to his petition before the high court.
by that letter respondent stated that he was waiting for the decision of his representation made for reconsideration of his transfer from surat to ukai and therefore the question of his remaining on unauthorised leave was misconceived.
since the respondent continued to be absent from duty the superintending engineer by a registered post acknowledgment due letter dated april 241974 informed the respondent that his request to postpone his transfer was rejected and he was directed to join his duty at ukai and on his failure to do so disciplinary action would be taken against him.
but even thereafter the respondent did not join his duties.
ultimately the chief engineer of the board took action against the respondent and discharged him from service with effect from 31 3 1974 by his letter dated may 271974.
the sequence of events and the correspondence which ensued between the officers of the board and the respondent clearly show that the respondent disobeyed the order of transfer and he remained absent from duty in an unauthorised manner without obtaining sanction of leave.
in fact the superintending engineer had by his letter dated 18th april1974 clearly reminded the respondent that his unauthorised absence was in breach of service regulation no 113 and called upon to show cause why action should not be taken against him but in spite of these letters the respondent failed to join his duties.
