interpretation and or application of the provisions of the gujarat town planning and urban development act1976 for short the act and the rules framed thereunder known as the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979.
for short the rules is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 27 12 2006 passed by a division bench of the high court of gujarat at ahmedabad in letters patent appeal no 1611 of 2006 arising out of a judgment and order dated 23 11 2006 passed by a learned single judge of the said court in sca no 7092 of 2001.
before embarking upon the issue involved in this appeal we may notice the admitted fact of the matter.
the government of gujarat in exercise of its power conferred upon it u s 65 of the act made a scheme in respect of the town of umra surat on 1 06 1999.
plot nos 177 and 178 were owned by respondent no 4 herein.
he used to run a business of marble and stone therein.
notices therefor were issued both to the appellant as also the respondent No appellant objected thereto.
he however did not pursue his case in regard to the proposal for widening of the road.
with a view to give effect to the provisions of the act and the rules framed thereunder proceedings were initiated for allotment of the said land in terms of the act 20 of the land was taken over without payment of any compensation.
in respect of the proceedings initiated for the purpose of re allotment of the land despite a public notice the appellant did not file any objection.
the said final plot original plot is allotted in lieu of your no 177178 paiki land.
and the said land is now vested in the municipal corporation from 1 7 1999and is of the ownership of the municipal corporation.
therefore as per the gujarat town planning and urban development rules1979 rule 33 the undersigned in exercise of powers conferred below s 681 and 82 of the bombay provincial municipalities act and below the s 68 notice under the gujarat town planning and urban development act this is to inform you that as shown in the sketch on the reverse the premises marked should be vacated within 7 days from receipt of the notice and had over the possession to the surat municipal corporation.
a division bench of the high court dismissed an intra court appeal preferred thereagainst.
the provisions of ss 52 and 81 being imperative in character no acquisition of land is permissible without service of any notice upon the persons interested which would include a tenant in occupation and carrying on business thereon.
a tenant having regard to the provisions of the transfer of property act or otherwise having an interest in the property can not be deprived therefrom without following the procedure established by law and without initiation of any proceedings for acquisition of land.
the tenant s interest being distinct and separate could not have been held to be merged with the interest of the landlord either for the purpose of allotment of a final plot or otherwise in favour of the landlord.
appellant having a right over the remaining 200 sq m of the land of original plot no 178 should be allowed to continue thereupon and final allotment made in favour of the respondent no 3 to that extent should be cancelled.
lalit in support of his contention strongly relied upon a decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji darji and others v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 1 scc 384 1991 indlaw sc 975 and jaswantsingh mathurasingh and another v ahmedabad municipal corporation and others 1992 supp 1 scc 5 1991 indlaw sc 972.
the scheme in terms of sub s 3 of s 65 of the act having become a part of the act validity thereof can not be questioned at this stage as modification of the scheme if any will have to undergo the entire process once over again which is not contemplated under the act.
chapter v of the act provides for town planning schemes.
rule 21 of the bombay rules provides for the procedure to be followed by the town planning officer.
we may also take notice of the decision of this court in mansukhlal jadavji.
therefore a tenant or a sub tenant in possession of a tenement in the town planning scheme is a person interested within the meaning of rules 213 and 4 of the rules.
but he must be in possession of the property on the crucial date i e when.
whether irrespective of rule 26 of the rules which prescribes for issuance of a general public notice any special notice upon the appellant was required to be served by the state or by the authority in our opinion cannot be gone into by us in these proceedings for the first time.
validity of rule 26 of the rules had never been questioned.
the question however would be what would be the consequence of non compliance thereof vis vis the conduct of the appellant himself.
the bangalore development authority act1976 provides that every person whose name appears in the assessment list or land revenue records shall be served with notice see sureshchandra c mehta v state of karnataka and others 1994 supp 2 scc 511 1993 indlaw sc 538.
in west bengal housing board etc v.
brijendra prasad gupta and others etc air 1997 sc 2745it was opined that the authority is not required to make a roaming enquiry as to who is the person entitled to notice.
we have referred to the said decisions only to show that the requirements in regard to the manner of service of notice varies from statute to statute and there exists a difference between the bombay rules and the rules.
we are however not unmindful of the fact that a statute of town planning ex facie is not a statute for acquisition of a property.
every step taken by the state does not involve application of the doctrine of eminent domain.
in this case the appellant did not oppose the draft scheme.
it accepted that the state had a right to do so.
existence of a public purpose and increase in the valuation of the property was admitted.
there exists a distinction in the action of the planning authority as regards vesting of a property in it and one so as to enable it to create a third party interest vis  vis for the purpose of re allotment thereof.
in the former case the vesting of the land may be held to be an act of acquisition whereas in the latter it would be distribution of certain benefits having regard to the purpose sought to be achieved by a statute involving town planning.
it was on that legal principle this court in state of gujarat v shantilal mangaldas ors 1969 3 scr 341 1969 indlaw sc.
it is in the aforementioned situation a claim is to be made before the authority whenever a notice in form h is published.
the location of the land the area of the land the nature of right etc.
ors v.
m g makwana ors 1967 3 scr 65 1967 indlaw sc 138.
see also bhikhubhai vithlabhai patel ors v.
state of gujarat anr 2008 4 scale 278 2008 indlaw sc 527.
it is not a case where the state by its acts of omissions and commissions was unjustly enriching itself.
it was a dispute between two private parties as regards the right to obtain final allotment the principles underlying the same are not in dispute.
what is in dispute is the distribution of quantum thereof between two competing claimants viz landlord and tenant.
we do not mean to say that under no circumstances the appellant was entitled to allotment of a portion of the property or mandatory compensation in lieu thereof from the landlord.
but we intend to emphasise that he has lost his right to enforce the same in a public law forum.
he has no enforceable claim against the state at this juncture.
it is not in dispute that a appellant although filed an objection with regard to the draft scheme did not choose to pursue it.
b he did not file objections for re allotment and did not participate in the proceedings following acquisition instituted by the authorities under the act.
in view of the above the issue is whether it was open to him to assert his purported right to special notice in respect of the final allotment in the instant case given the fact that he did not pursue his objections to the draft scheme and subsequently did not object participate during the proceedings for re allotment.
it has been noticed by us hereinbefore that under rule 26 of the rules applicable in the instant case as distinguished from the bombay rules wherein special notice is requiredno special notice is mandatorily required to be served.
assuming however that it was obligatory for the state to issue notice to the appellant the question is whether the principle of waiver precludes him from claiming equitable relief in this case due to his earlier conduct which allowed the entire process of acquisition and allotment to become final.
the primary meaning has been said to be the abandonment of a right in such a way that the other party is entitled to plead the abandonment by way of confession and avoidance if the right is thereafter asserted and is either express or implied from conduct.
waiver may also be by virtue of equitable or promissory estoppel unlike waiver arising from an election no question arises of any particular knowledge on the part of the person making the representation and the estoppel may be suspensory only.
where the waiver is not express it may be implied from conduct which is inconsistent with the continuance of the right without the need for writing or for consideration moving from or detriment to the party who benefits by the waiver but mere acts of indulgence will not amount to waiver nor may a party benefit from the waiver unless he has altered his position in reliance on it.
as early as 1957the concept of waiver was articulated in a case involving the late assertion of a claim regarding improper constitution of a tribunal in manak lal v dr prem chand air 1957 sc 425 1957 indlaw sc 159 in the following terms.
it is true that waiver can not always and in every case be inferred merely from the failure of the party to take the objection.
as sir johan romilly m r has observed in vyvyan v vyvyan.
in the director of inspection of income tax investigationnew delhi and another v pooran mal sons and another 1975 4 scc 568 1974 indlaw sc 354 the issue was regarding waiver of benefits under a statute of limitation.
it was stated we may in this connection refer to the decision in wilson v mcintosh.
they referred with approval to the decision in phillips v martin where the chief justice said here there is abundant evidence of waiver and it is quite clear that a man may by his conduct waive a provision of an act of parliament intended for his benefit.
the caveator was not brought into court in any way until the caveat had lapsed.
and now the applicant after all these proceedings have been taken by him after doubtless much expense has been incurred on the part of the caveator and after lying by and hoping to get a judgment of the court in his favour asks the court to do that which but for some reasons known to himself he might have asked the court to do before any other step in the proceedings had been taken.
but if it appears that the statutory conditions were inserted by the legislature simply for the security or benefit of the parties to the action themselves and that no public interests are involved such conditions will not be considered as indispensable and either party may waive them without affecting the jurisdiction of the court.
significantly a similar conclusion was reached in the case of krishna bahadur v purna theatre 2004 8 scc 229 2004.
emphasis supplied see also bank of india v o p swarnakar 2003 2 scc 721 2002 indlaw sc 1562.
ltd v.
it is well settled that what can not be done directly can not be done indirectly.
such conduct precludes and operates as estoppel against him with respect to asserting a right over a portion of the acquired land in a situation where the scheme in question has attained finality following as a result of the appellant s inaction.
issuance of any such direction in our opinion is legally impermissible.
we therefore are of the opinion that in this case no relief can be granted to the appellant.
he may however take recourse to such remedy which is available with him in law including one by filing a suit or making a representation before the state.
for the reasons aforementioned the appeal is dismissed.
