this is an appeal on a certificate article 1331 of the constitution from a judgment and decree passed by the appellate bench of the high court of calcutta.
modifying on appeal the judgment and decree passed by mr justice bose on the original side of that court.
no 41 and no 401.
grey street in the city of calcutta.
he appointed his two sons rajendra and jogendra executors of ms will and provided that his second wife golap sundari and the two sons rajendra and jogendra should perform the seva of the deity and on their death their heirs and successors would be entitled to perform the seva.
dwarka nath died on the 16th march 1892 leaving him surviving his widow golap sundari and his two sons rajendra and jogendra.
41 and 401 grey street and appointed his brother jogendra the sole executor thereof.
he died on the 31st january1900 and jogendra obtained on the 24th april 1900.
and nagendra then a minor the three sons of rajendra filed a suit being suit no 969 of 1909on.
41 grey street was allotted to the branch of rajendra and the remaining portion was allotted to jogendra absolutely and in consideration of a sum of rs 6500 to be paid to the plaintiffs jogendra was declared entitled absolutely to the premises.
No 401.
grey street.
41 grey street allotted to the branch of rajendra was subsequently numbered 41 a grey street.
disputes arose between bhupendra jnanendra and nagendra the sons of rajendra and one kedar nath ghosh was appointed arbitrator to settle those disputes.
nagendra thereafter executed several mortgages of the said premises.
snehalata dutt filed in the year 1929 a suit being suit No 1042 of 1929 against nagendra the trustees under the said deed of settlement and the puisne mortgagees for realisation of the mortgage security.
a consent decree was passed in the said suit on the 9th september 1929.
hari pada.
dutt and durga charan dutt for a sum of rs 19000.
a petition made by the purchasers on the 12th january 1937 for setting aside the sale was rejected by the court on the 15th march 1937.
haripada dutt died on the 3rd june 1941 leaving him surviving his three sons pashupati nath dutt shambhunath dutt and kashinath dutt the appellants before us.
41 a and 402 a grey street were its absolute properties and for possession thereof for a declaration that the consent decree dated the 24th november 1910 in suit No 969 of 1909 and the award dated the 12th october 1920 and the dealings made by the heirs of jogendra.
andor rajendra relating to the said premises or any of them purporting to affect its rights in the said premises were invalid and inoperative in law and not binding on it for an account of the dealings with the said premises for a scheme of management of the debutter properties and for its worship for discovery receiver injunction and costs.
No 41 a.
No 402 a grey street as in his opinion sushilabala as executrix to her husband s estate and her two sons had acquired title to the said premises by adverse possession and the title of the idol thereto had been extinguished.
in regard however to the cross objection relating to premises.
a certificate article 1331 of theconstitution was granted on the 4th june 1951 and the high court admitted the appeal finally on the 6th august 1951.
it was contended on behalf of the appellants that the dedication of the premises.
No 41.
it was further contended that nagendra by virtue of the award dated the 12th october 1920 claimed to be absolutely entitled to the premises.
grey street and that his possession of the said premises thereafter became adverse which adverse possession continued for upwards of 12 years extinguishing the right of the idol to the said premises.
grey street No 401.
if there be any surplus left after defraying the debsheba expenses the same shall be credited to the said sridhar jew thakur s fund and with the amount so deposited repairs etc from time to time will be effected to the said house.
No 41 with a view to preserve it and the taxes etc.
and shall take the municipal bills in his name.
3 of the will is an absolute dedication of the premises.
grey street to the idol as its permanent habitation with only the right given to the sevayats to reside in the said premises for the purposes of carrying on the daily and periodical seva and the festivals etc.
in that case it is provided that the shebait for the time being shall be entitled to reside with his family in the said dwelling house but the dwelling house itself is the place specially set apart for the family idols to which specific reference is made in the will and in their lordships opinion the gift is only a perfectly reasonable arrangement to secure that the man in whose hands the supervision of the whole estate is vested should have associated with his duties the right to reside in this named dwelling place.
41 grey street to the idol was an absolute dedication.
if nagendra was thus a sevayat of the idol it could not be urged that his possession could in any manner whatever be adverse to the idol and his dealings with the said premises in the manner he purported to do after the 12th october 1920 could not be evidence of any adverse possession against the idol.
he position of the sevayat and the effect of his dealings with the property dedicated to the idol has been expounded by rankin c j in surendrakrishna ray v shree shree ishwar bhubaneshwari thakuran 1933.
cal 54 1932 indlaw cal 59.
but in the present case we have to see whether the possession of two joint shebaits becomes adverse to the idol when they openly claim to divide the property between them.
i am quite unable to hold that it does because such a change of intention can only be brought home to the idol by means of the shebait s knowledge and the idol can only react to it by the shebait.
adverse possession in such circumstances is a notion almost void of content.
against the shebaits on the idol s behalf and in the present case it may be said that the acts of the shebaits must have i been notorious in the family.
but such persons have no legal duty to protect the endowment and until the shebait is removed or controlled by the court he alone can act for the idol.
grey street by adverse possession.
appeal dismissed.
