the three appellants are the state of west bengal in appeal arising out of slp c no 401 of 1993the state fishery development corporation ltd in appeal arising out of slp c no 13516 of 1992 and bansilal farms in appeal arising out of slp c no 13314 of 1992.
the respondents are the members of one sarkar family in the city of calcutta.
a suit for partition was filed by one of the co sharers of said sarkar family in the high court of calcutta on 3 9 1955which was registered as suit no 2539 of 1955 the schedule of properties included the disputed nalban fishery.
a learned single judge of the calcutta high court passed a preliminary decree in the said suit on 11 8 1960 one of the co sharers of the sarkar family preferred an appeal against the preliminary decree before the division bench which was registered as appeal no200 of 1960 during the pendency of the aforesaid appeal the state of west.
bengal requisitioned large extent of fisheries including the disputed nalban fishery on 5 11 1969 in exercise of power under section 31 of the west bengal land requisition and acquisition act of 1948 hereinafter referred to as the requisition act pursuant to the aforesaid requisition order the state of west bengal took possession of the nalban fishery on 8 11 1969 members of the sarkar family challenged the order of requisition by filing a writ petition in calcutta high court in november1969 which was registered as civil rule no 7317 w of 1969 the aforesaid writ petition was dismissed by the learned single judge.
the appeal to the division bench was preferred against the aforesaid order of dismissal which was registered as f m a no 126 of 1970 the division bench dismissed the appeal by its order dated 5 7 1971 sarkar family moved this court in slp c no 1452 of 1972 by order dated 17 11 1972.
bengal was in fact in possession of the said fishery.
mr harish salve the learned senior counsel for the state of west bengal.
under the circumstances the said receiver rightly intimated this court about the mistake committed by him and re delivered possession of nalban fishery to the state of west bengal.
the calcutta high court both the learned single judge as well as the division bench committed serious error of law in directing the receiver to take possession of nalban fishery from the state of west bengal and deliver the vacant possession of the same to the members of the sarkar family.
he further contended that nalban fishery having been vested in the state of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal under the provisions of west bengal acquisition act1955the state can not get rid of the direction given by the supreme court to the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree and the nalban fishery being one such fishery the possession thereof was required to be given to the person in whose favour the said fishery has been allotted and therefore the learned single judge as well as the division bench in appeal have rightly issued the directions.
gupta also contended that the order of the high court of honourable mr justice deepak kumar sen dated 23 9 1980 directing the receiver to allow m s ghose and saha surveyors to make proper demarcation in the nalban fishery dividing the same in two lots and thereafter carry out the directions of the supreme court in respect thereof has become final the same not having been challenged by the state of west.
bengal and therefore it would not be open for the said state in application for execution of the decree to raise the question of vesting of the nalban fishery with the state and the court would not interfere with the direction given by the learned single judge and division bench of the calcutta high court.
gupta contended that the validity of the said act has been challenged and is pending before the calcutta high court an interim order has been passed in the said proceeding and therefore until that matter is decided it can not be said.
in this connection he had further urged that this question had not been raised before the high court.
in view of the rival submissions at the bar the first question that arises for consideration is whether in the suit for partition amongst the members of the sarkar family which was ultimately disposed of by a compromise decree in this court nalban fishery had been allotted to some members of the sarkar family and whether such decree would affect the rights of the state and bind the state of west.
it is also not disputed that the state of west bengal though was not a party to the suit but in course of proceeding before this court by an order of the court the said state of west bengal was impleaded as a party.
bengal in any manner whatsoever to the fisheries in question if they are vested in the state under the provisions of west bengal estates acquisition act1953.
further while directing the receiver to handover possession of the various fisheries covered by the final decree to the parties to whom they have been allotted under the decree this court also protected the interest of the state by observing we made it quite clear that this will not in any manner prejudice or affect the right of the state to its claim over the fisheries under the west bengal acquisition act 1955 west bengal act 1 of 1954 or under any other statute.
bengal ca nt be bound down by the so called allotment of fisheries in favour of some members of the sarkar family under the compromise decree in question.
the receiver appointed by a court is an officer of the court.
as has been stated earlier the possession which was taken by the earlier receiver was a symbolical one and factually the state had not been divested of its possession which it took on 8 11 1969 in our considered opinion the succeeding receiver rightly took into account the directions of this court passed on 18 4 1979 and 24 4 1979 and rightly took the view that the rights and interest of the state in relation to nalban fishery is not affected in any manner by the so called allotment of the fishery in the partition decree amongst the members of the sarkar family.
bengal in respect of the nalban fishery as the state was not a party to the proceedings.
after such demarcation is made the commissioner of partition is directed to approve the same and carry out the direction of the honble supreme court in respect thereof.
does not in any way take away rights of the state of west.
bengal which is otherwise protected by the supreme court while passing the compromise decree.
in view of our earlier conclusion that the rights and interest of the state of west bengal was not in any way be affected by the so called partition and allotment of the nalban fishery inter se amongst the members of the sarkar family the said order dated 63 10 1980 passed by the learned single judge of the calcutta high court will not stand on the way of the state in claiming and putting forth its interest and right over the nalban fishery.
by virtue of the extended definition of land in section 2 7 and the amended provisions of section 3a of the land reforms act tank fishery like nalban fishery come within the definition of and it vests in the state by operation of section 31 read with section 14.
it is no doubt true that a writ petition has been filed challenging the validity of the aforesaid act and notification issued there under in relation to vary nalban fishery which is still pending and therefore it would not be proper for us to examine the provisions of the emended west bengal land reforms act and to express any opinion thereon.
in view of our aforesaid conclusions the impugned directions of the learned single judge as well as of the division bench are set aside and these appeals are allowed.
order accordingly.
