the appellant is a company incorporated under the companies act1956 with the object of manufacture and sale of cigarettes.
members of general public are the shareholders and the shares of the company are traded in through various stock exchanges in the country.
a petition was filed under article 226 of the constitution by respondent no 1 seeking for a writ of mandamus to treat the members of the respondent union who are employees working in the canteen of the appellants factory as employees of the appellant and for grant of monetary and other consequential benefits.
on behalf of the appellant contention was raised that no writ would lie against the appellant inasmuch as the appellant is a company which is not an authority or a person against whom a writ would lie.
it was submitted that they do not discharge any public duty and hence the writ can not be issued.
on the merits of the matter the appellant disputed various questions of fact and urged that the decision of this court in parimal chandra raha vs life insurance corporation of india1995 supp 2 scc 611 1995 indlaw sc 183would not be applicable to the appellant in the facts and circumstances of the case.
the learned single judge who decided the matter in the first instance held that a writ would lie against a company under a private management following the decision in t gattaiah vs commissioner of labour1981 ii llj 54 1981 indlaw ap 26in which it was held that establishment of a canteen and its maintenance is a statutory requirement under section 46 of the act a public duty is imposed on the company to establish and maintain the canteen inasmuch as members of the respondent union are working in the canteen they are entitled to seek a mandamus.
he therefore held that when a public duty is called upon to be discharged by a private management a writ of mandamus would lie and could be issued under article 226 of the constitution.
he thus rejected the contention.
on the merits of the matter the learned single judge followed the decision in parimal chandra rahas case holding that when the duty had been enjoined on the appellant to provide and maintain a canteen facility under the factories act it becomes the obligation of the appellant to establish a canteen and that is what the appellant had done.
on appeal the division bench of the high court affirmed the view taken by the learned single judge.
the division bench referred to their decision in rakesh gupta vs hyderabad stock exchange ltd hyderabad ors.
air 1996 ap 430 1996 indlaw ap.
302that a writ in the nature of mandamus certiorari and prohibition are recognised as public law remedies and are not available to enforce private law rights.
however noticing that the expression any person or authority used in article 226 of the constitution should not be confined only to statutory authorities and instrumentalities of state but would cover any other person or body performing public duty.
what is relevant is the nature of the duty imposed on that body.
the duty must be judged in the light of positive obligation owed by the person or authority to the affected party no matter by what means the duty is imposed.
on that basis the division bench of the high court dismissed the writ appeal.
hence this appeal.
on behalf of the appellant contention put forth at the forefront is that a writ would not lie against the appellant inasmuch as the appellant is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and as an incident thereto has provided a canteen to its workmen pursuant to an obligation under section 46 of the act.
shri s ganesh learned counsel for the appellant pressed into service the decision of this court in anadi mukta sadguru shree muktajee vandas swami survarna jayanti mahotsav smarak trust ors vs v r rudani ors.
1989 2 scc 691 1989.
in that background it was observed that if the rights are purely of a private character no mandamus could be issued and also if the management of the college were purely a private body with no public duty mandamus would not lie.
in that case the respondent was managing the affiliated college to which public money is paid as government aid which played a major role in the control maintenance and working of educational institutions.
in de smith woolf and jowells judicial review of administrative action5th edn.
by way of illustration it is noticed that a private company selected to run a prison although motivated by commercial profit should be regarded at least in relation to some of its activities as subject to public law because of the nature of the function it is performing.
2 the principles of judicial review prima facie govern the activities of bodies performing public functions.
in such a case that branch of the law and its remedies should and normally will be applied and b where there is a contract between the litigants.
in such a case the express or implied terms of the agreement should normally govern the matter.
prima facie therefore a private person or an incorporated company can not be taken out of the sweep and the contemplation of article 226 of the constitution.
in anadi muktas case this court examined the various aspects and the distinction between an authority and a person and after analysis of the decisions referred in that regard came to the conclusion that it is only in the circumstances when the authority or the person performs a public function or discharges a public duty article 226 of the constitution can be invoked.
in the present case the appellant is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes.
in other words it is only a labour welfare device for the benefit of its work force unlike a provision where pollution control act makes it obligatory even on a private company not to discharge certain effluents.
in such cases public duty is owed to the public in general and not specific to any person or group of persons.
if merely what can be considered a part of the conditions of service of a workman is violated then we do not think there is any justification to hold that such activity will amount to public duty.
this court in indian petrochemicals corporation ltd anr vs.
shramik sena ors.
439 1999 indlaw sc 513referred to the decisions in parimal chandra rahas case reserve bank of india vs workmen1996.
3 scc 267and m m r khan vs union of india1990 supp.
since we have held that the high court had no jurisdiction to entertain a petition under article 226 of the constitution we would have set aside the order made by the high court.
civil appeal nos 653397 653497.
against this award a writ petition was filed before the high court.
however there is no material on record to show that the canteen is located in such an area where it would be hazardous to have a fire furnace source of heat or light to cook food.
in the absence of such material we find no substance in this contention.
in the circumstances aforesaid the contention vis vis the findings recorded by the tribunal we find absolutely no merit in these appeals and the same shall stand dismissed.
