these appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 26 4 2000 passed in writ petition no 1188 of 1997 by the high court of madhya pradesh indore bench involving similar questions of law and fact were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.
background facts.
the appellant nos 1 and 2 are degree holders in civil engineering and appellant nos.
3 and 4 are diploma holders in civil engineering.
allegedly from their salary provident fund was being deducted.
a dispute arose as to whether all the appellants were employed for the purpose of the said project or the appellants in civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed in the year 1991 by the authority for its own job.
an industrial dispute was raised by the appellants herein as their services were not being regularized by the respondent.
the said dispute was referred for adjudication of the labour court indore by the state of madhya pradesh on the following questions.
1whether non regularisation of the sub engineers as per the listed enclosed is valid and proper.
if no then to which relief they are entitled and what directions should be given to the employer.
2whether it is valid and proper for not giving equal salary to these sub engineers like other sub engineers in accordance with the equal work.
the appellants were appointed by the indore development authority.
all the employees have been working in the establishment of the respondents for last 5 6 years.
the salary fixed by the commissioner was earlier given to all engineers and later on they were given the salary fixed by the collector.
aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the said award the respondent authority herein filed a writ petition before the madhya pradesh high court indore bench which was marked as writ petition no 1188 of 1997.
by reason of the impugned judgment dated 26 4 2000 the said writ petition was allowed.
high court judgment.
the high court accepted the contention of the respondent authority that the appellants were not appointed against the sanctioned posts and their services were taken on account of the said oda project which was implemented through the agency of the respondent authority.
it was held that the services of the appellants can not be directed to be regularized in services.
despite the same the high court went into the question of applicability of the said act and held that the 1961 act and the 1963 rules had no application.
before the high court various documents were produced by the appellants herein to show the nature of their employment but the same had not been taken on records by the high court.
as regard application of the doctrine of equal pay for equal work it was held to be not applicable as the appellants were not entitled to absorption or classification in terms of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
it was urged that the expression clear vacancies has to be read in the context of period for which the concerned workman was required to work namely six months.
dr dhawan would furthermore contend that the findings of fact had been arrived at by the labour court that the appellants of civil appeal no 337 of 2002 were appointed by the authority and not only their work was being taken in the project but also in other works and thus mere posting of the appellants to the said project would not disentitle them from the benefit of the said act.
it was further contended that as the respondents despite direction to produce documents including the offers for appointment did not produce the same an adverse inference should have been drawn against them by the high court.
as regard the claim of equal pay for equal work the learned counsel would urge that the high court has failed to consider the same in its true perspective.
drawing our attention also to the pleadings as also the reliefs claimed for by the appellants before the labour court the learned counsel would contend that no contention was raised therein by the appellants as regard their entitlement of permanency in terms of the provisions of the 1961 act and the 1963 rules.
2 of the standard standing order reads as under 2.
classification of employees.
employees shall be classified as i permanent ii permanent seasonaliii.
i above.
the respondent authority is a state within the meaning of article.
12 of the constitution of india.
it is also not in dispute that the respondent authority has been constituted under madhya pradesh nagar tatha gram nibesh adhiniyam 1973 adhiniyam section 47 whereof mandates that all appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the state cadre mentioned in section 76 b of the development authority services must be made by the state government and the appointments to the posts of officers and servants included in the local cadre in the said services by the concerned town and country development authority.
it is also not in dispute that the state government in exercise of its rule making power conferred upon it section 85 of the adhiniyam has made rules known as m p development authority services officers and servants recruitment rules 1987.
it is nobody s case were sanctioned ones.
indisputably the conditions precedent for appointment of the officers and servants of the authority as contained in the service rules had not been complied with.
an illegal appointment can not be legalized by taking recourse to regularization.
a state before offering public service to a person must comply with the constitutional requirements of articles 14 and 16 of the constitution.
all actions of the state must conform to the constitutional requirements.
a daily wager in absence of a statutory provision in this behalf would not be entitled to regularization.
bal kishan soni and others 1997 5 scc 86 1997 indlaw sc 928.
in hindustan shipyard ltd and others vs dr p sambasiva rao and others 1996 7 scc 499 1996 indlaw sc 3441 a division bench of this court observed.
in a umarani vs registrar cooperative societies and ors.
in this case except the nodal centre functions and supervision of the cooperative society the state has no administrative control over its day to day affairs.
it was therefore impermissible for the state to direct regularization of the services of the employees of the cooperative societies.
vs state of jammu kshmir ors.
in this situation we see no reason to interfere with the impugned order.
case law relied upon by the appellant.
in dr a k jain and others etc.
vs union of india and others 1987 supp.
in hindustan shipyard ltd 1996 indlaw sc 3441 supra this court also distinguished the said decision.
in niadar and another vs delhi administration and another 1992 4 scc 112 1988 indlaw sc 244 again no law has been laid down.
it appears that there existed a scheme for regularization and some directions were issued in terms thereof.
application of the act and the rules.
it is furthermore not in dispute that adhiniyam came into force in 1973.
even the appointments to the local cadre must be made by the authority.
it is accepted that no appointment letter was issued in favour of the appellants.
had the appointments of the appellants been made in terms of the provisions of the adhiniyam and rules framed thereunder the respondent authority was statutorily enjoined to make an offer of appointment in writing which was to be accepted by the appellants herein.
the recruitments of the appellants do not fall in any of the said categories.
constitution being the suprema lax shall prevail over all other statutes.
in absence of any specific directions contained in the schedule appended to the standing orders the statute and the statutory rules applicable to the employees of the respondent shall prevail.
in m p vidyut karamchari sangh vs m p electricity board 2004 9 scc 755 2004 indlaw sc 198 a three judge bench of this court held that a regulation which is not inconsistent with the provisions of the 1961 act and the rules can be issued by a statutory authority.
if by reason of the latter the appointment is invalid the same can not be validated by taking recourse to regularization.
for the purpose of regularization which would confer on the concerned employee a permanent status there must exist a post.
no case was made out by the appellants herein in their statements of claim that they became permanent employees in terms thereof.
furthermore the labour court having derived its jurisdiction from the reference made by the state government it was bound to act within the four corners thereof.
it could not enlarge the scope of the reference nor could deviate therefrom.
a demand which was not raised at the time of raising the dispute could not have been gone into by the labour court being not the subject matter thereof.
for the purpose of obtaining a permanent status constitutional and statutory conditions precedent therefor must be fulfilled.
project work.
as noticed hereinbefore the high court s observation remained unchallenged that the project was to be financed by oda.
furthermore the indore municipal corporation was not a party and thus no employee could be thrust upon it without its consent.
apex bank ltd vs.
amar singh and others 2003 5 scc 388 2003 indlaw sc 331.
however it has been seen that even services of one of them had been requisitioned only for the project work.
adverse inference.
in absence of any pleadings the appellants could not have called for any document to show that the provisions of the 1961 act and 1963 rules would apply.
recently in m p electricity board vs hariram etc.
2004 air scw 5476.
as stated above between the period 1987 to 1990 as a matter of fact till end of the year 1990 the respondents have not been able to establish the case of continuous work for 240 days.
considering these facts in our view drawing of an adverse inference for the non production of the muster rolls for the years 1991 92 is wholly erroneous on the part of the industrial court and the high court.
at this stage it may be useful to refer to a judgment of this court in the case of muncipal corporation faridabad vs siri niwas jt 2004 7 sc 248 2004 indlaw sc 719 wherein this court disagreed with the high court s view of drawing an adverse inference in regard to the non production of certain relevant documents.
in the instant case the industrial tribunal did not draw any adverse inference against the appellant.
it was within its jurisdiction to do so particularly having regard to the nature of the evidence adduced by the respondent.
in any event in this case we have proceeded on the basis that the assertions of the appellants as regard nature of their employment their continuance in the job for a long time are correct and as such the question as to whether any adverse inference should be drawn for alleged production of documents called for would take a back seat.
equal pay for equal work.
no post was sanctioned by the state government.
they were not appointed in terms of the provisions of the statute.
for the purpose of invoking the said doctrine the nature of the work and responsibility attached to the post are some of the factors which were bound to be taken into consideration.
furthermore when their services had not been regularized and they had continued on a consolidated pay on ad hoc basis having not undergone the process of regular appointments no direction to give regular pay scale could have been issued by the labour court.
in state of haryana and another vs tilak raj and others 2003 6 scc 123 2003 indlaw sc 512 it was held a scale of pay is attached to a definite post and in case of a daily wager he hold no posts.
appeals dismissed.
