appellant before us was detained u s 3 of the conservation of foreign exchange and prevention of smuggling activities.
act1974.
for short cofeposa.
he is the managing director of a company registered and incorporated under the provisions of the companies act known as m s sundesh springs private limited.
it was an exporter and held a valid licence therefor.
the company was to export products of alloy steel.
he allegedly misdeclared both the value and description of goods upon procuring fake and false bills through one prabhjot singh.
aaysons india and m s p j sales corporation ludhiana.
appellant and the said prabhjot singh made statements u s 108 of the customs act.
on the aforementioned allegations an order of detention was issued on 5 4 2005 appellant moved for issuance of a writ of habeas corpus before the high court of judicature of punjab and haryana.
a letters patent appeal concededly which was not maintainable was filed thereagainst which was dismissed by reason of the impugned judgment.
although before the high court the principal ground urged on behalf of appellant in questioning the legality or validity of the order of detention was unexplained delay in passing the order of detention which did not find favour with the high court.
before us several other grounds viz.
non placement of vital material documents before the detaining authority non supply of documents relied on or referred to in the order of detention as also non application of mind on the part of the detaining authority had been raised.
in the meantime admittedly the period of detention being over appellant had been set at large.
he was released from custody on 17 5 2006.
in this regard we may notice the following dates.
furthermore the authorities of the dri by a letter dated 28 02 2005 requested the bank to defreeze the bank accounts of appellants.
learned counsel would contend that keeping in view the nature and magnitude of an offence under cofeposa a distinction must be made between an order of detention passed under cofeposa vis a vis other acts as per the law laid down by this court in rajendrakumar natvarlal shah v state of gujarat and others 1988 3 scc 153 1988 indlaw sc 71 and in that view of the matter the high court must be held to have arrived at a correct decision.
indisputably delay to some extent stands explained.
but we fail to understand as to why despite the fact that the proposal for detention was made on 2 12 2004the order of detention was passed after four months.
b l  2 misc.
am 2003 ldh dated 17 05 2004 is being referred which is not received in this office.
the question as regard delay in issuing the order of detention has been held to be a valid ground for quashing an order of detention by this court in t d abdul rahman v state of kerala and others air 1990 sc 225 1989 indlaw sc 205 stating the conspectus of the above decisions can be summarised thus the question whether the prejudicial activities of a person necessitating to pass an order of detention is proximate to the time when the order is made or the live link between the prejudicial activities and the purpose of detention is snapped depends on the facts and circumstances of each case.
however when there is undue and long delay between the prejudicial activities and the passing of detention order the court has to scrutinise whether the detaining authority has satisfactorily examined such a delay and afforded a tenable and reasonable explanation as to why such a delay has occasioned when called upon to answer and further the court has to investigate whether the causal connection has been broken in the circumstances of each case.
in fact no reason in that behalf whatsoever has been assigned at all.
delay as is well known at both stages has to be explained.
in abdul salam alias thiyyan s o thiyyan mohammad detenu no 962general prison trivandrum v union of india and others 1990 3 scc 15 1990 indlaw sc 994 whereupon the learned additional solicitor general has placed strong reliance this court found that there had been potentiality or likelihood of prejudicial activities and thus or mere delay as long as it is explained the court may not strike down the detention.
in the instant case we have noticed hereinbefore that the authorities of dri themselves categorically stated that the activities of appellant after 11 10 2003 were not in question and in fact all the bank accounts were defreezed.
in a case of this nature we do not think in view of the admitted facts that we would not permit appellant to raise the said questions.
by reason of the civil court by orders dated 7 5 2004 and 31 5 2004the bank accounts of m s girnar and shri amar were defreezed.
by an order dated 13 8 2004the tribunal ordered release of goods.
if the same had not been done not only the delay in issuing the order of detention stood unexplained but also thereby the order itself would become vitiated.
furthermore the civil court proceedings were over on 19 11 2004.
evidently the detaining authority did not take immediate steps to detain appellant.
a division bench of this court in k s nagamuthu v state of tamil nadu ors 2005 9 scale 534 2005 indlaw sc 748 struck down an order of detention on the ground that the relevant material had been withheld from the detaining authority which in that case was a letter of the detenu retracting from confession made by him.
in p saravanan v state of t n and others 2001 10 scc 212it was stated when we went through the grounds of detention enumerated by the detaining authority we noticed that there is no escape from the conclusion that the subjective satisfaction arrived at by the detaining authority was the cumulative result of all the grounds mentioned therein.
in ahamed nassar v state of tamil nadu and others 1999 8 scc 473 1999 indlaw sc 778this court opined the question is not whether the second part of the contents of those letters was relevant or not but whether they were placed before the detaining authority for his consideration.
in paragraph 36 of the order of detention the detaining authority stated in view of the facts mentioned above i have no hesitation in arriving at the conclusion that you have through your acts of omission and commission indulged in prejudicial activities as narrated above.
1991 1 scc 128 1990 indlaw sc 85 the said decision was rendered in a different fact situation.
demand of any or every document however irrelevant it may be for the concerned detenu merely on the ground that there is a reference thereto in the grounds of detention cannot vitiate an otherwise legal detention order.
if the documents were material so as to enable the detenue to make an effective representation which is his constitutional as also statutory right non supply thereof would vitiate the order of detention.
in this case the statements of appellant and prabhjot singh in our opinion were material.
if original of the said documents were not available xeroxed copies thereof could have been made available to him.
the detaining authority moreover while relying on the said documents in one part of the order of detention could not have stated in another part that he was not relying thereupon.
even in the earlier part of the impugned order of detention i e detaining authority appears to have drawn his own conclusions.
in view of our findings aforementioned it is not necessary to consider the contention raised by mr mukul rohtagi that order of detention suffers from non application of mind.
the judgment of the high court therefore cannot be sustained.
it is set aside accordingly and the order of detention passed against appellant is quashed.
appeal allowed.
