this appeal by special leave has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005 of bombay high court aurangabad bench by which the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed and their conviction under section 304 b read with section 34 ipc and sentence of 7 years ri imposed thereunder by the learned sessions judge aurangabad was affirmed.
the deceased bhimabai was daughter of pw 1 tukaram eknath tambe resident of village sanjkheda.
and she was married to appellant No 1.
appasaheb son of sheshrao palaskar about two and half years prior to the date of incident which took place on 15 september 1991.
according to the case of prosecution a sum of rs 5000 and some gold ornaments had been given at the time of marriage of bhimabai.
for about six months bhimabai was treated well but thereafter the accused started asking her to bring rs 1000 1200 from her parents to meet the household expenses and also for purchasing manure.
her father pw 1 tukaram along with some of his relatives went to the house of the accused and tried to persuade them not to ill treat bhimabai.
a few days before nag panchami festival bhimabai came to her parental home and complained that the accused were not giving her proper food clothing and even footwear.
after completion of investigation charge sheet was submitted against the appellants and in due course the case was committed to the court of sessions.
the learned sessions judge framed charges under sections 498 a 304 b read with section 34 ipc and section 306 read with section 34 ipc against both the appellants.
the learned sessions judge after consideration of the material on record acquitted the appellants of the charges under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but convicted them under section 304 b ipc and imposed a sentence of 7 years ri thereunder.
the appeal preferred by the appellants was dismissed by the high court by the judgment and order dated 23 february 2005.
1 tukaram father of the deceased has given details of the prosecution version of the incident in his statement in court.
he then went to village palshi along with other persons of his family where he reached after sun set.
he saw that bhimabai was lying dead and froth was coming out of her mouth which was smelling of thimet insecticide.
in his cross examination he has admitted that his statement that he had given rs 20000 in dowry at the time of marriage was incorrect and in fact he had given rs 5000 as dowry and the total expenses incurred in the marriage was about rs 20000.
pw 5 sumanbai is the mother of the deceased bhimabai.
in her statement under section 161 cr.
and that was the cause.
in the very next paragraph she stated as under it is not true to suggest that in my statement before the police i never said that ill treatment was as a result of demand for money from us and its fulfillment.
accepting the statements of father and mother on their face value that utmost which can be held is that the appellant no 1 had asked his wife bhimabai to bring money for meeting domestic expenses and for purchasing manure.
in view of the aforesaid definition of the word dowry any property or valuable security should be given or agreed to be given either directly or indirectly at or before or any time after the marriage and in connection with the marriage of the said parties.
being a penal provision it has to be strictly construed.
dowry is a fairly well known social custom or practice in india.
it is well settled principle of interpretation of statute that if the act is passed with reference to a particular trade business or transaction and words are used which everybody conversant with that trade business or transaction knows or understands to have a particular meaning in it then the words are to be construed as having that particular meaning.
see union of india v garware nylons ltd air 1996.
sc 3509 1996 indlaw sc 2404 and chemicals and fibres of india v union of india air 1997.
a demand for money on account of some financial stringency or for meeting some urgent domestic expenses of for purchasing manure can not be termed as a demand for dowry as the said word is normally understood.
since an essential ingredient of section 304 b ipc viz demand for dowry is not established the conviction of the appellants can not be sustained.
he has submitted that the insecticide thimet is extensively used by the farmers for preservation of crop and is kept stored in their houses and it could be a case where thimet accidentally got mixed with some food item and was consumed by bhaimabai.
it has thus been submitted that no offence under section 306 ipc is made out against the appellants.
as already stated the appellants were also charged under sections 498 a and 306 read with section 34 ipc but were acquitted of the said charges by the learned sessions judge which order has attained finality for the reason that the state did not prefer appeal against the same.
it has been held in state of andhra pradesh v thadi narayan air 1962.
therefore we have refrained from expressing any opinion as to whether the appellants could be held guilty of having committed the offence under section 498 a or 306 ipc on the basis of evidence available on record as their acquittal under the aforesaid charges has attained finality and can not be reversed in the appeal filed by the appellants challenging their conviction under section 304 b ipc.
in view of the discussion made above the appeal is allowed.
the appellant no 1 is in custody.
he shall be released forthwith unless wanted in some other case.
appeal allowed.
