Appeal No 101 of 1959.
Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated November 8 1957 of the Deputy Custodian General Evacuee Property Now Delhi Revision Petition No 17 R55 of 1955.
Achhru Ram and K L Mehta for the appellants.
BK Khanna and T M Sen for the respondent No 1.
NS Bindra and A G Ratnaparkhi for the respondents Nos.
March 15.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by MUDHOLKAR J.
The two villages are however 25 miles or so distant from each other.
Nand Singh therefore made an application for consolidation of his lands with those of the appellants in the village Raikot.
During the pendency of this application he died and after his death the application was continued by the appellants.
A revision petition preferred by the appellants against the order of the Assistant Custodian was dismissed by the Additional Custodian on August 20 1952.
On October 7 1952 the appellants preferred a revision application before the Custodian General.
During the pendency of the revision application the Additional Custodian for the State of Punjab cancelled the allotment of fourteen quasi permanent allottees of the village Karodian in the same district on the ground that these persons were entitled to allotment of suburban land a had been wrongly fitted in the village Karodian.
Acting suo motu the Additional Custodian made an order on October 31 1952 cancelling the order of allotment of land in the village Raikot made in favour of the appellants in the year 1949 and instead allotted to them land in Karodian in substitution of the lands at Raikot and of the lands allotted to their father.
On December 17 1954 the Deputy Custodian General before whom these allottees had preferred an application for revision revised the order of the Additional Custodian and restored to the 14 allottees of Karodian the land which had been originally allotted to them.
As a result of this order the allotment of Karodian land made in favour of the appellants automatically stood cancelled.
On January 6 1955 the appellants moved the Deputy Custodian General for calling up their review application and for revising the order of October 31 1952 passed by the Additional Custodian cancelling the allotment of Raikot lands which had originally been made in their favour in the year 1949.
By the order dated November 8 1957 the Deputy Custodian General dismissed the appellants  application.
Section 12 of the 1954 Act empowers the Central Government to acquire evacuee property for rehabilitation of displaced persons by publishing in the official gazette a notification to the effect that it has decided to acquire such evacuee property in pursuance of this provision.
It is common ground that by notification section R 0 697 dated March 24 1955 the Central Government decided to acquire all evacuee property allotted to displaced persons by the Custodian under the Conditions contained in the notification of the Government of Punjab in the Department of Rehabilitation No 4892 6 dated July 8 1949 except certain categories of property specified in the schedule.
But the consequence of the publication of the notification by the Central Government under section 121 of the with respect to any property or a class of property would be to divest the Custodian completely of his right in the property flowing from section 8 of the  and vest that property in the Central Government.
No provision was however pointed out to us in either of these Acts whereunder despite the Vesting of the property in the Central Government the Custodian was empowered to deal with it.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Section 19 of the Act provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or any other law for the time being in force but subject to the rules that may be made under the Act the managing officer or managing corporation may cancel any allotment etc under which any evacuee property acquired under the Act is held or 334 occupied by a person whether such allotment or lease was granted before or after the commencement of the Act.
1 of section 19 of the 1954 Act are to prevail notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force.
It is not disputed that the appellants ceased to hold and had lost possession of the Raikot lands before the publication of this notification.
Sub section.
Sub section.
His contention appears to be that there is nothing to show that this property was entrusted to a managing officer.
He then says that this rule restricts the powers of a managing officer or a managing corporation in the matter of cancellation of allotment in the sense that it permits cancellation only on certain specified grounds and therefore it cannot be said that section 191 of the Act is completely in conflict with section 10 of the in so far as the question of cancellation of allotment is concerned.
Appeal dismissed.
