Appeal No 52 of 1957.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated April 22 of 1953 of the Patna High Court in Appeal from Original Decree No 162 of 1946.
KN Bhattacharya and P K Chatterjee for appellants.
March 22.
By diverse transfers the interest of Samanata vested in Bagdigi Kujama Collieries Limited.
bThat the area encroached upon by the defendants be ascertained and the defendants be directed to vacate the same.
cThat a permanent injunction be issued against the defendants restraining them from encroaching upon the plaintiffs  coal land and cutting and removing coal therefrom.
dThat an enquiry be made and the quantity of coal cut and removed by the defendants from the plaintiffs  coal land as also the quantity of the coal rendered unworkable be ascertained and a decree for the value thereof by way of damages be granted to the plaintiffs against the defendants.
It is common case that the southern boundary of the appellants  leasehold is conterminous with the northern boundary of the respondents  lease hold.
No plan was annexed to this lease deed.
It appears that Samanta purchased the interest of Banerji in the leasehold of 1894 and thereafter at the request of Samanta on November 23 1900 Durga Prasad Singh gave a fresh lease of the same holding to Samanta and incorporated a map in that lease ie exhibit 3b.
As the plan is a part of the lease deed it is clear from the plan that the northern boundary of the leasehold of Samanta is the said line.
Mathews in turn demised under exhibit D the said land of 96 bighas to Walji Khetan representing the appellant.
It is settled law that a map referred to in a lease should be treated as incorporated in the lease and as forming part of the document see Darapali Sadagar vs Najir Ahamed 1.
But a perusal of exhibit I shows that there is no reference in regard to the western boundary to revenue records.
It is well settled that a map referred to in a lease should be treated as incorporated in the lease and as 499 forming part of the said document.
But learned counsel for the appellant contended that the finding is vitiated by the burden of proof having been wrongly thrown on the appellant.
It is common case that article 48 of the Limitation Act governs the period of limitation in respect of the present suit.
It reads  Period Time from Description of suit.
But the question is whether they have adduced evidence which had the effect of shifting the onus of proof to the appellant.
He denied that he had any knowledge of the said two facts.
503 onus of proof may shift to the defendant.
But to say that no duty is cast upon the plaintiff even to allege the date when they had knowledge of the defendant s possession of the converted property and that the entire burden is on the defendant is contrary to the tenor of the article in the Limitation Act and also to the rules of evidence.
Emphasis is also laid upon the fact that there was quarry system of working in the mines and a contention is advanced that quarrying is done openly and therefore the respondents must have had knowledge of the said fact.
Appeal dismissed.
