Appeal No 787 of 1964.
Appeal from the judgment and decree dated January 5 1961 of the Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree No 1012 of 1955.
AK Sen and D N Mukherjee for the appellant.
In the notice to quit served on the 7th May 1948 the first two persons were described as tenants under the plaintiff and the third as a person who had purported to purchase the structures on the land and the tenancy right therein.
In the plaint itself the first two defendants were described as thika tenants.
No claim was made for rents or taxes although it was alleged that the same were in arrears.
Fifth Additional 172 Court Alipore on November 23 1949.
Before the Subordinate Judge a point was taken that after the coming into force of the Act of 1949 the Rent Controller alone had jurisdiction in respect of ejectment suits as the defendant appellant was a thika tenant.
Abdul Gaffur preferred a Second Appeal to the High Court and this was heard and disposed of by a single Judge of that court on July 21 1954 long after the Thika Tenancy Ordinance of 1952 and the Amending Act of 1953 had come into force.
In view of the amendment of the Act in 1953 however.
5 of section 2 the definition of a thika tenant or violation of a condition consistent with the Act by a breach of which he was under the terms of a contract between himself and his landlord liable to be ejected iii refusal to agree to pay rent at such enhanced rate as might be determined under section 25 iv requirement 174 of the land by the landlord for his own occupation or for the purpose of building on the land or otherwise developing the land except during any period limited by a registered lease under which the tenant might be holding v failure on the part of the holding for his own residential manufacturing or business purpose for more than six consecutive months omitting the priviso and vi on the expiry of a registered lease in favour of the tenant.
Sub section.
If any such pending suit or proceeding related to any matter in respect of which the Controller was competent to pass orders the suit or proceeding would be transferred to the Controller who would deal with it in accordance with the provisions of the Act just as if the Act had been in operation on the date of the commencement of the suit or proceeding.
Sub section.
If the Court or Controller holds that the person is such a thika tenant.
Sub section.
Sub section.
Sub section.
In such a case it became open to a person covered by the new definition of a thika tenant to make an application within three months of the commencement of the Ordinance either to the court or to the Controller as the case may be for relief on the basis that the applicant was a thika tenant.
Sub section.
It is a general principle of law that statutes are not to operate retrospectively so as to defeat vested rights but such operation may be given by express enactment or by necessary implication from the language employed.
It expressly states that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any contract a thika tenant shall be liable to ejectment on ground specified and not otherwise.
Consequently a landlord who had filed a suit before the 28th October 1949 but was unable to establish any of the grounds mentioned in section 3 could not claim to eject his tenant.
He could only make an application under section 5 after giving notice under section 4.
182 We cannot speculate as to why the legislature thought fit to omit sections 28 and 29 from the Act of 1949.
As Abdul Gaffur came under the definition of a thika tenant by the Amending Act of 1953 we have to proceed on the basis that he was such a tenant in 1949 with the result that he could claim the benefit of section 4 of the Act.
He was not right in his view that the grounds specified in section 3 could not be called in aid.
