Appeals by Special Leave from the Judgment and order dated the 19 1 1970 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Tax Revision Cases Nos 46 and 47 of 1969.
V section Desai Mrs Vimla Markandeyulu and G N Rao for the Appellant.
P Ram Reddy and P P Rao for the Respondents.
The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BEG J.
The High Court referred to the fact that the appellants had not produced their account books to show that they had been purchased by persons other than those who ran cinemas or for any other use.
Of course it is very difficult to identify a taxable commodity merely by the use to which it may be put.
Nevertheless it appears that the entry under consideration links the taxable object with its general or ordinary use.
It was pointed out that the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal the final departmental authority under the Act had allowed an application for adducing expert evidence to determine the question whether arc carbons manufactured by the appellant company could be covered by the entry under consideration.
It however appears that before further evidence could be taken at the appellate stage on the subject a decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the State of Andhra Pradesh vs Srimathi Nidmarthi Saraswathi Devi1 was brought to the notice of the Tribunal.
In the High Court two decisions cited on behalf of the appellants were Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes Madhurai Division Madhurai vs Ravi Auto Stores2 and State of Madras vs Indian oxygen Ltd 3.
The High Court pointed out that in both these cases what was decided was whether welding electrodes considered by themselves were electrical goods falling within entry 41 of Schedule 1 of the Madras General Sales Tax Act.
It was held in these cases that they were only copper rods which were melted by electrical power in the process of welding.
Neither the use of the term electrode to describe them suggesting a connection with electricity nor their utilisation in a process involving application of electrical power could convert them into electrical goods as contemplated by the entry in the Madras Act.
The High Court rightly observed that these decisions had no bearing whatsoever upon the very different entry in a schedule of an entirely different Act of a different State.
The entry No 4 occurs in a schedule in which descriptions of goods to be taxed indicate that the expression required for use there with has been employed for equipment or accessories connected with the main purpose.
For instance in entry No 5 the expression occurs at the end as follows Photographic and other cameras and enlargers films and plates paper and cloth and other parts and accessories required for use therewith.
It is not enough to show that the article can be put to other uses also.
2 1970 26 STC 87.
3 1970 26 STC 428.
4 1971 27 STC 45.
564 part and accessories of motor vehicles.
Entry No 2 relating to refrigerators air conditioning plants covers also component parts thereof.
The same item may be an accessory of more than one kind of instrument.
It will be noticed that the entry we have to interpret includes parts as well as accessories which are required for use in projectors or other cinematographic equipment.
That is determined by their ordinary or commonly known purpose or user.
