From the judgment and decree dated April 21 1969 of the Allahabad High Court in First Appeal No 80 of 1964.
These properties included properties in village Amauli.
Math Sauna is an old Math situated in the village of that name in Tehsil Saidpur in the district of Ghazipur.
First Appeal No 80 of 1964 was filed by Kedar Nath Chaubey  Uma Shanker Yati against the declaration that the Amauli properties were owned by Math Sauna or the deity and that Sadashiv Yati was in possession thereof as Mahant and Sarbarakar.
It held that the Amauli properties had been purchased by Shivshanker Yati in 1921 from 662 the personal and separate funds inherited by him from his predecessor Shivpher Yati and that the Amauli properties must therefore be regarded as his personal and separate properties and they did not belong to the Math or the deity.
663 There is reason to believe that Mohant Shivbaran Yati Mohant Shivpher Yati and Mahant Shivshankar Yati were not celibates and had been grihasthas and were entitled to possess enjoy and acquire personal property.
He had also inherited the personal property of Mahant Shivbaran Yati who owned three private properties in village Shiv Dass in the district of Banaras.
He was granted a succession certificate by the District Judge Ghazipur in respect of the two fixed deposits made by Mahant Shivpher Yati in the Bank of Bengal.
In respect of both properties the revenue records mentioned the name of Mahant Shivshankar Yati and not that of the Math or the deity.
As has been observed there can be no presumption either way.
In the present case it is difficult to conclude from the material before us that the total income from the properties belonging to the Math and the deity left any appreciable surplus after meeting the expenditure on account of bhog arpan deepdan daily and annual puja and the other obligations specified in the waqf deed.
In our judgment the High Court is right in the view that the Amauli properties constitute the personal property of Uma Shankar Yati and do not form part of the properties of the Math Sauna or of the deity Sri Thakur Gokarneshwar Mahadeoji.
In the result the appeal is dismissed with costs.
PBR Appeal dismissed.
