1955 there were more than 200 insur ers carrying on life insurance business in India.
4 Notwithstanding anything contained in the 14 of 1947 or in any other 191 law for the time being in force the transfer of the serv ices of any employee of an insurer to the Corporation shall not entitle any such employee to any compensation under that Act or other law and no such claim shall be entertained by any Court tribunal or other authority.
 Sub section 1 of section 11 of the Act provided that every whole time employee of an insurer whose controlled business had been transferred to and vested in the Corpora tion and who was employed by the insurer wholly or mainly in connection with the controlled business immediately before the appointed day ie September 1 1956 would on and from the appointed day become an employee of the Corpora tion and would hold his office therein by the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and condi tions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same on the appointed day if the Act had not been passed and would continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation was terminated and until his remunera tion terms and conditions were duly altered by the Corpora tion.
In many cases the insurers had permitted their employees to continue in their service even beyond 60 years depending upon their efficiency and physical capacity.
 The above regulation fixed the age of retirement of an employee at 55 years while empowering the authority to extend the service of an employee at its discretion every year upto 60 years of age.
After the promulgation of the Order the trans ferred employees to whom it applied were entitled to contin ue in the service of the Corporation till they attained the age of 60 years subject to the Corporation exercising its powers to retire a transferred employee on his attaining the age of 55 years if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
All the employees have often represented that the age of retirement should be raised to 60.
 After the matter was duly considered by the Services and the Budget Committee and by the Corporation regulations were framed under clauses b and bb of section 492 of the Act prescribing the ages of retirement of the employees of the Corporation belonging to different categories with the previous approval of the Central Government and were incorporated in the Staff Regulations 1960 made by the Corporation which came into effect on July 1 1960.
A transferred employee shall retire on completion of age 60 but the appointing authority may direct such employ ee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been im paired.
2 An employee appointed to the service of the 198 Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been impaired.
All employees appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 were required to retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority was empowered to retire any such employee on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency was found to have been impaired.
2 An employee belonging to Class I or Class II appointed to the service of the Corporation on or after 1st September 1956 shall retire on completion of 58 years of age but the appointing authority may direct such employee to retire on completion of 55 years of age or at any time thereafter if his efficiency is found to have been im paired.
All the employees belonging to Class III and Class IV irrespective of the fact whether they were transferred employees or employees appointed after 1st September 1956 were entitled to continue in service till 60 years of age but the employees belonging to Class I and Class II who were appointed to the service of the Corpora tion on or after 1st September 1956 had to retire on the completion of 58 years of age subject to the usual clause relating to premature retirement.
Aggrieved by the judgment of 204 the High Court the Corporation and the Union of India have filed these appeals by special leave.
1 guarantees to the trans ferred employee the same tenure at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions on the transfer to the Corporation as he enjoyed on the appointed day under the insurer and he is entitled to them until they are duly altered by the Corporation or his employment in the Corpora tion is terminated.
2 is intended for the purpose of securing uniformity among them.
2 is the source of controversy before us.
2 are linked with the process of transfer and integration is further indicated by the circumstances that the power thereunder is vested in the Central Government.
2 of section 11 can be exercised more than once.
2 of section 11 contained the words from time to time and that these words were subsequently deleted when enact ment took place.
 We have given extracts from the above decisions which are fairly long since they relate to the identical provi sions of law and also cover a large part of the arguments urged before us.
A discrimination made by a State between the employees who are directly recruited to the service of the State and the employees whose services are taken over by the State on the taking over of the institutions where they were working has been held to be not unconstitutional by this Court in Ram Lal Wadhwa  Anr.
 It has to be observed in the case before us also that the transferred employees belong to a diminishing cadre.
Already 30 years have elapsed from the date of the establishment of the Corporation.
A ministerial railway servant who entered Government service on or before the 31st March 1938 and held on that date i a lien or a suspended lien on a permanent post or 219 ii a permanent post in a provision al substantive capacity under Clause d of Rule 2008 and continued to hold the same without interruption until he was confirmed in that post shall be retained in service till the day he attains the age of sixty years.
220 The Respondent in that case that is A Pitchumani while he was entitled before December 23 1967 to continue in service till he attained the age of 60 years as he had joined the service of the Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway Company on August 16 1927 ie prior to March 31 1938 and satis fied the other conditions mentioned in clause b of rule 2046 could not have the benefit of that clause on and after December 23 1967 since in the Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway Company where he was formerly working there was no rule similar to clause b as regards the age of retirement.
  in support of his case before us.
All life including administrative life involves experiment trial and error but within the leading strings of fundamental rights and absent unconstitutional exces ses  judicial correction is not right.
