Civil Appeal No 1377 of 1982.
From the Judgment and Order dated 17111980 of the Bombay High Court in Special Civil Appeal No 251 of 1977.
FR Nariman EK Jose PH Parekh and Miss Sunita Sharma for the Appellant.
This appeal by special leave arises from the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay dated 17th of November 1980.
It is necessary therefore to refer to the said agreement in little detail.
Clause 2 of the said agreement recites that the licensee had agreed to use the premises as above and merely for the purpose of workshop business.
It further goes on to state that the licensee shall not under any circumstances be allowed to use the premises for the residential purposes or any other purpose save and except specified therein.
In setting out the terms of the agreement the emphasis has been supplied to the relevant clauses to highlight the points in controversy.
Before the Judge Court of Small Causes the points of defences were filed in which the appellant had stated that the application was not maintainable and the plaintiff was himself occupying the premises under one Sugrabhai Mohammed Husain who himself had adopted ejectment proceedings against the respondent.
In order to go back to the findings of the learned Judge of the Court of Small Cause and the learned High Court Judge found that the appellant had failed to prove that he was a sub tenant of the respondent and the learned Judge found him to be a licensee.
In the light of the legal position and also the fact that the rent light bill stood in the name of the respondent showed that there was no desire to create any lease by the document mentioned hereinbefore and the appellant regarded him as a mere licensee.
In July 1967 the appellants 1064 filed an application for eviction under section 41 of the .
In support of this appeal Sree RF Nariman very laboriously took us through the documents.
Clause 12 is significant which gave to the licensor the right to enter upon the premises and inspect the same at any time.
In our opinion the background of the facts of this case and the background of the entire document negate the contention of the appellant that it was a lease and not a licence.
In any event this is a possible view that could be taken.
In the aforesaid view of the matter we are clearly of the opinion that in view of the intention of the parties in the document and the facts and circumstances of this case it was a licence and not a lease.
In the aforesaid view of the matter this appeal must fail as we find no ground to interfere with the decision of the High Court.
