C No 677 of 1988.
Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.
In other words it is intended to control over the traffic in poisons.
In exercise of this power by the Notification No F 104472 fin.
 According to them therefore the substance manufactured by them would not come within the amended Rules.
Though in the beginning the petitioners were contending that in substance manufactured by them did not come within Rule 2x2 and there were some correspondence in this regard when the competent authority held that the substance manufactured by the petitioners would come within the definition of thinner  as contained in Rule 2x2 of the Rules the petitioners did not question the finding on any material.
Before us also they had not placed any materi al to show that the finding was wrong or that the substance would not come within Rule 2x2.
 It was a law in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and as such continued in force.
223 That Section enables the State Government to make Rules generally to carry out the purposes and objects of the Act.
It is not all poisonous substances that are brought within the regula tion under the Act.
It is those substances which the Govern ment consider its possession for sale or sale to be regulat ed in the interest of health and safety of the society.
A substance may be a deadly poison or a valuable medicine according to how and how much is taken.
It states that the State Government may by rule regulate the posses sion of any specified poison in any local area in which the use of such poison for the purpose of committing murder or mischief by poisoning cattle appears to it to be of such frequent occurrence as to render restriction on the posses sion thereof desirable.
Any substance which is used for purposes mentioned therein can definitely be declared as poison.
It has become a notorious fact which we can even take judicial notice of that the substance known as thinner  as it is or mixing with some other substances are taken as intoxicating spirits endangering the life.
In many cases deaths have also occurred due to drinking such substance.
If the Government thought in the circumstances that the posses sion or sale of the same is to be regulated it could not be said that they have no power to regulate.
It is in exercise of this power Rule 13 was amended by substituting the old Rule by the following Rule 13 1 All poisons kept for sale by any licence holder under these rules except those kept by a chemist druggist or compounder for the purchase of dispensing or compounding in compliance with the prescription of medical or veterinary practitioner shall be kept in a box almirah room or building according to the quantity maintained which shall be secured by lock and key and in which no sub stance shall be placed other than poisons possessed in accordance with a licence granted under the Act and each poison shall be kept within such box almirah room or building in a separate closed receptacle of glass metal or earthenware.
Every such box almirah room or building and every receptacle shall be marked with the word poison  in red charac ters both English and vernacular and in the case of receptacles containing separate poison  with the name of such poison .
ii All poisons  mentioned in clause x of rule 2 shall be kept in a room or building according to quantity maintained which shall be secured by lock and key in a separate receptacle of glass metal and earthenware etc.
Every such room building and every such receptacle shall be marked with the word poison  in red character both English and vernacular with the name of the poison .
 We are not impressed with the argument that any require ment in this Rule is unreasonable or offends the petition ers  right to carry on any trade or business.
It is a busi ness which can be termed even as inherently dangerous to health and safety of society in view of the rampant misuse and sale to the poor weak and helpless as an intoxicant.
A law in such circumstance can regulate the trade.
It is also not necessary that the same substance should be declared as poison for the entire country.
No order as to costs.
